MCLAINE—ENNION.— On 7th December, 1935, at St. Thomas' Cathedral. Kuching, by Rev. W. Shelley, Alan Lynton, son of the Rev. F. McLaine, Mysore, South India, to Sidney Mary Joyee, daughter of Major S. J. Ennion. Newmarket England.
Mr. Ong Kwan Hin thanks all friends and relatives who sent wreaths and letters of condolence and all those who were present at his wife's funeral which was held on the 6th December, 1935.
Hari Raya Puasa was heralded by a salute of fourteen guns fired from Fort Margherita battery at 8.0 a.m. on December 27th. During the morning numerous parties of Malays called on Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee at Astana, and in the afternoon Their Highnesses paid their customary visits to the Datus, accompanied by Mr. R. L. Daubeny. Acting Resident, First Division, and Mr. F. H. Pollard, Acting Secretary for Native Affairs.
The Silver Wedding of Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee falls on February 24th, 1936. We understand, however, that the occasion will be celebrated early in January, since Her Highness the Ranee is expected to sail for Europe on January 4th.
Mr. P. M. Adams. Resident. Second Divi­ sion, paid a short visit to Kuching early in the month, arriving on the 1st, and leaving on the 3rd. During the return journey m.l. Rentis, in which Mr. Adams was travelling, was wrecked on a sandbank off Stumbin in the Batang Lupar. An account of the acci­ dent will be found under “Second Division News.”
The many friends of Mr. N. J. Austin, until lately Agent of the Chartered Bank, Kuching, will no doubt be interested to learn that he retired on pension on September 30th. Both Mr. and Mrs. Austin were very popular in Kuching, and we hope that, they will both maintain their connection with Sarawak by turning up at the annual reception and dinner of the Sarawak Association in London.
Mr. K. N. Black, Managing Director of the Sarawak Steamship Co. Ltd., and Mrs. Black left Kuching by the Vyner Brooke on the 12th to go on furlough. We understand that they will not be returning to Kuching, and so take this opportunity of wishing them farewell and a good leave. Mr. Black’s place has been taken by Mr. G. S. Miller, of Mansfields, who is no stranger to Kuching since he acted temporarily for Mr. Black some months ago.
Mrs. B. J. C. Spurway and Miss S. M. J. Ennion arrived from Singapore on December 3rd. Miss Ennion. who is Mrs. Spurway’s sister, was married to Mr. A. L. MacLaine, of the Sarawak Treasury, on December 7th. An account of the ceremony appeal's in another column.
H.M.S. Lowestoft (Commander A. R. M. Bridge, R.N.), arrived at, Kuala Rejang on December 29th, and is expected to stay there until January 4th, 1936. H.M.S. Lowestoft is a sloop from the China Station carrying a complement of seven officers and about sixty men.
Mr. E. O. Bruce, who stayed in Kuching for a week as the guest of Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee at Astana, left to go on furlough on December 2nd.
Films due to he shown at the Sylvia Cinema during January include Nell Gwyn, Phantom President, It Happened One Night, and Clive of India.
Mr. J. G. Anderson returned from fur­ lough on December 9th. and spent some days in Kuching before proceeding to Mukah, where he relieved Mr. L. K. Morse as District Officer. Mr. Morse, who has been appointed District Officer, Bau, travelled to Kuching with Mrs. Morse in H.H.M.Y. Maimuna, and had a particularly rough passage. Such heavy seas were running that it was impossible even for a barong to clear Kuala Mukah; Mr. and Mrs. Morse and Mr. R. E. Edwards, who had arrived at Mukah with Mr. Anderson, were therefore compelled to cycle across the beach to Ova and join the Maimuna at the Kut. Mr. Morse reached Kuching on the 12th and took over Bau some days later.
On December 21st the annual prize giving took place at St. Thomas’ School. Kuching. In the absence of the Venerable Archdeacon Hollis, the Rev. Father W. Shelley took the chair. After a. short speech of welcome to Her Highness the Ranee, who was present, and who had kindly consented to distribute the prizes, the Rev' Father J. Paisley, Acing Principal of the school, made a most entertaining speech in which he discussed the progress of the school during the past year, and foreshadowed developments in 1936. Her Highness the Ranee then presented prizes and certificates, and the proceedings closed with three very hearty cheers for Her Highness which were delivered with such enthusiasm that they made the rafters ring
Mr. W. Outram, who arrived by the Vyner Brooke on December 20th, is at present staying with his son, Mr. J. R. Outram, at Bau. We welcome back to Sarawak Mr. and Mrs. G. Kidd, of Tanah Estates, Kanowit, who returned from leave on December 9th. Mr. Kidd left for Sibu by m.v. Rejang the same afternoon, but Mrs. Kidd and Miss Jewel Kidd stayed on in Kuching for a week as the guests of Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Baird.
Mr. and Mrs. Kidd had as a fellow- traveller in the Vyner Brooke the Rev. Father V. ("Apai") Halder, of the R.C. Mission, Sibu, who for the past three months has been undergoing medical treatment at the General Hospital, Singapore. Father Halder, who was in the best of health and spirits, left for Sibu on December 16th, and no doubt the strains of Tyrolese yodelling will soon be heard once more on the Island. Father Halder’s many friends will be delighted to hear that his long sojourn in hospital has had no adverse effect on the celebrated “beaver,” which, if anything, has gained in luxuriance during his absence.
We print elsewhere the Report and Balance Sheet of the United Chinese Bank, Ltd., of Singapore. This report. which discloses a most satisfactory financial position, will doubtless be of interest to our readers, since one of the leading Directors of the Bank, Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang, is a well-known Kuching merchant. We understand that Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang is building himself a house at Katong,. Singapore, and intends in future to divide his time equally between Singapore and Sarawak.
It is interesting to note that, a sum of over 810,000,000) was received in deposits by the United Chinese Bank in only two months; the Bank opened on October 1st, and the Report is dated December 5th.
Mr. D. R. Lascelles, Officer-in-Charge, Oya and Dalat, has been transferred to Kapit, where he relieves Mr. F. A. Moore, who is due to proceed on furlough. Mr. Lascelles' place has been taken by Mr. J. C. B. Fisher.
Mr. C. D. Le Gros Clark, who was due to return to Sarawak on December 24th, has been granted an extension of furlough owing to an accident which caused serious injury to his knee, and which necessitated extensive medical treatment. The accident occurred while he was staying in Germany. Mr. Le Gros Clark is now expected to reach Kuching on January 20th. Lieutenant-Commander E. V. B. Baker, R.N., late of H.M.S. Herald, is now in England and will shortly be retiring from the Service.
A most successful dance was held at the Kuching Residency on the evening of December 28th, Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Daubeny being at home to about seventy guests. Music was provided by G. Solosa and His Race, and the party finished up in the best Race Week style with an impromptu concert held in the bar.
Among the guests at this dance was Mr. C. D. Adams, Resident. Third Division, who arrived in Kuching on December 27th, accompanied by Wan Bujang. Native Officer. and some Dayak tuai from the Poi and Ngemah areas. Mr. Adams, accompanied by Mr. H. M. Calvert, Commissioner of Trade and Customs, left by the Maimuna on January 2nd.
We hear that Mr. T. M. Griffiths, late of the Land and Survey Department, has obtained a post with a firm of estate agents in South Audley Street, W.
We welcome back to Kuching Miss E. S. Andrews. Principal of St. Mary’s School, who returned from home leave on December 16th.
Christmas festivities were more than usually intense in Kuching this year, owing to the unusual proximity of Christmas Day and Hari Raya. Boxing Day was declared a public holiday, so this meant that the holi­ days extended from the evening of 24th to the morning of the 30th, with one (nominal) break on the morning of Saturday, December 28th. Most of us were glad enough to see Monday come round again.
On New Year's Eve a Fancy Dress Ball was given at Astana to which the whole European population of Kuching was invited. Fancy dress was optional for men but compulsory for women, and some highly original
costumes were seen. The dance was preceded by a dinner to which nearly ninety guests sat down, and the long table on the ground floor of the Astana, which was beautifully decorated for the occasion, presented a memorable spectacle. The dance went with the swing that always characterises Astana entertainments, and our thanks are due to Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee for a very delightful evening.
Incidentally, His Highness’ Private Secretary and the Astana staff are to be warmly congratulated on the excellence of the arrangements. It is no light undertaking to pre­ pare and serve dinner for ninety people, and the efficiency of the organization was remarked on all sides.
We take this opportunity of wishing all our readers the test of good luck and prosperity in 1936
At the 36th Annual General Meeting of the Sarawak Union Club held on Saturday, 28th December. 1935, the following gentlemen were elected office-bearers for the ensuing year: — President: The Bishop of Labuan and Sarawak: Vice-President.' The Archdeacon of Sarawak; Hon. Secretary: Mr. Tan Kui Ghoon: Hon. Treasurer: Mr. Chan Weng Yen; Committee Members; Messrs. Kueh Choo Seng, Ee Tiang Loke and C. Mason; Hon. Librarian: Mr. Chin Shin Sen and Hon. Auditor Mr. L. Gwee Ah Shin.
When Lahui Ako, a trained Papuan medical assistant, addressed medical officers from 15 different countries at the Pacific Health Conference in Sydney in September, it was the crowning achievement of 32 years’ work of Dr. Walter Strong, M.A., M.D., B. CH., Chief Medical Officer of Papua.
Against much opposition, Dr. Strong inaugurated the system of training young Papuans at Sydney University and. later, sending them out into bush villages to supply medical aid to the natives. Over three years, the scheme has proved successful, and the scoffing of critics has turned into real admiration.
In 1906, Australia officially look over the control of Papua and in course of time the existing scanty medical service was re-organised. At first, it was hoped that qualified medical men would be stationed in each of the 16 magisterial divisions, with our European and several native assistants. It soon became evident, however, that for reasons of finance Papua would have to be content with native medical assistants, working in villages supervised by three or four Europeans, under the control of a Chief Medical Officer. That is the present policy of the Government, assisted by the medical work accomplished by the various mission societies.
At first little medical work was done among the natives—doctors being established at Port Moresby and Samarai mainly for attendance upon Europeans. Gradually, as the native population became more settled and in closer contact with white people, native hospitals wire erected at the main centres. There natives were trained as wards­ men and assistants to look after native patients, and so was laid the foundation of the present training system.
A severe outbreak of dysentery occurred in Papua in 1912, and Dr. Strong, who had been a Resident Magistrate, was appointed travelling medical officer.
By this time, he was proficient with Motuan. the most widely understood of the many Papuan dialects, and he conceived the idea of teaching several natives to help him in combating the dysentery outbreak. Under his tuition they slowly acquired a smattering of elementary medical know­ ledge and rendered useful service during the epidemic. Dr. Strong was appointed Chief Medical Officer during the war period, and, with a depleted staff, relied largely upon native assistants to do most of the work in villages.
After the war the tropical disease of yaws became general in Papuan coastal districts, and native assistants were shown how to give arsenicals by intravenous injections. The first Papuan to make injections could neither read nor write, but merely recorded each incision made by a stroke on paper.
When, in 1923, a new material (Bismuth Salicylate) was found to be efficacious by intramuscular injection, and was also of negligible cost, a definite policy was instituted by the Papuan Government to train natives for independent work in villages.
Thousands of injections were given per annum, with a noticeable decrease in the incidence of ulcers and other conditions dependent on yaws. Incident­ ally, side by side with the training in medicine,
went education in English, in which the natives made their reports. Senior assistants regularly sent reports to Port Moresby showing the more serious cases treated by name, district, village, age, sex, etc., and with a brief statement of diagnosis and treatment. This system was carried on successfully until 1932. when a more ambitious attempt was made to give the assistants a better medical education.
Towards the latter part of 1932 it was felt that while valuable work was being done at small cost, further improvement would be impossible unless the assistants were given some tuition in the sciences upon which medicine and surgery are based. It was suggested that two or three natives should be sent to the Central Medical School in Fiji. This idea, however, was abandoned: four years among strange people was considered too long for the Papuans to be absent from their country.
It was finally decided that a number of Papuans should be sent to Sydney University for a period of six months' training. The Papuan Government readily agreed to the plan. Twelve natives were selected, some of whom were already assistants in the medical department with a practical knowledge of dealing with native patients. Others were new recruits from mission stations. All could read and write Motuan, and had a knowledge of simple arithmetic and English.
A preliminary course of six months was under­ taken at Port Moresby. Their instructions included: position of bones and body organs; anatomical terms: physiology of blood; lung actions; nervous and digestive systems, etc. They were taught weights and measures, and how to use the balance and microscope. In September, 1933, the party was taken to Sydney by Dr. Strong and placed under the care of Dr. Clements, at the School of Tropical Health and Medicine. He revised and extended the work done in Papua and, with the wide resources of the school, was able to enlarge the young natives’ studies, illustrating by practical demonstration and of surgical injuries, fractures, dislocation of bones, haemorrhage, and head injuries.
Having passed examinations entitling them to use The letters C.N.M.A. (Certified Native Medical Assistant), they returned to Papua in March, 1931.
The students were distributed all over the Territory, each working with two ordinary native assistants, under the supervision of the Resident Magistrates.
The system proved a success, and a further party was sent to study in Sydney. In August, 1935, the third group arrived for six months' training.
Dr. Strong regards a party of three as ideal to travel among the bush villages. The leader gives injections and other treatment; the second native keeps records in a patrol book and assists the leader.
The third member has charge of the equipment, baggage, etc., and concerns himself with the practical side of village medical work. Pacific Islands
Monthly.
We print the above article in the belief that it is of more than merely local and professional interest, since the Public Health policy that has been so successfully pursued in New Guinea is of considerable significance to those interested in the development of other primitive tropical countries. The Principal Medical Officer, to whom the proof was sub­ mitted, comments as follows: —
"As regards rainfall, waterways and other geographical conditions Papua resembles Sarawak, but there the resemblance ceases, for its people are of the negritic type, some 30% being cannibalistic.
"Dr. Strong is to bo congratulated on his achievements among tribes who have but recently been introduced to civilized methods. "His system of tuition and treatment of the natives is in vogue here but on more extensive lines. For instance, Sanitary Inspectors undergo training annually at Singapore, and Field Operating units tour the country especially the 1st and 4th Divisions with a Sanitary Inspector or dresser in charge.
Where necessary, malarial conditions are studied and drugs administered. Paid vaccinators were found to fee most unsatisfactory, and protection against small­ pox is now always performed by Sanitary Inspectors or dressers. 18,000 vaccinations were carried out in 1934, and for this year the number to date is 34,000. "It might be of interest to know that the campaign against yaws has been of signal success. The abhorrent deformities and mutilations occasioned by this disease are now seldom met with. In the last 12 years the Medical Department has given over 80,000 injections of N.A.B.”
Some years ago I was persuaded to write an article on "The Muruts of Sarawak" (S.M.J., No. 13, 1933), in which I ventured the opinion that Muruts and Kelabits had a common origin. Since then 1 have been stationed at Baram and have had an opportunity of becoming better acquainted with the Kelabits, with the result that I am now convinced beyond all doubt that both tribes have a common origin in spite of superficial differences.
The two names Murut and Kelabit were not originally used by the people themselves but were acquired. Several theories have been advanced as to the origin of the word Murut, but personally I favour an entirely new one.
In both languages the word purut may be translated as brian, though with Kelabits it is not used in this sense, and I have heard it suggested by more than one Kelabit that the word Murut merely means those who give "purut." I have heard no theories as to the origin of the name Kelabit but it is worthy of note that when they first came in contact with Kayans and Kenyahs they were living in the river Labit. and it seems but reasonable to suppose, that the name Kelabit was given them on this account.
In physical characteristics and mode, of living both tribes are alike and both have a thorough knowledge of irrigation a knowledge unknown to any other tribe in Sarawak. In outward appear­ ances, houses and in the giving of "brian" for wives the two tribes are very different; in languages and other customs less so, but I think these differences are easily accounted for.
(a) Murut men wear their hair long but parted in the middle and drawn back in a knot, whereas Kelabits cut theirs with a fringe and no parting, leaving a long tail behind which is twisted up at the back. This style is obviously borrowed from Kayans and Kenyahs with whom they are in contact. (b) Muruts normally wear a round wood plug in the ear, the plug being variously decorated either by carving or embossing with silver or other metal, while Kelabits wear the copper ring and leopard's tooth or hornbill ornament common to all Kayans and Kenyahs.
(c) Murut women tattoo the forearm and hand only while Kelabit women tattoo the calf of the leg in a series of broad chevrons as well. This idea, I suggest, is borrowed from the Kayans whose women tattoo feet and thighs or from the Kenyahs who tattoo the feet only. (d) Kelabit women follow Kayan and Kenyah custom in distending the lobe of the ear with heavy copper rings while Muruts do not. (e) The Kelabit is the more virile as he has the advantage of contact with other virile races from the Baram, while the Murut has been left to himself and has definitely deteriorated.
The short skirt and bend head-dress are common to both.
A Murut house contains a room with door and walls for each family whereas a Kelabit house contains no proper rooms. There is a wall running longitudinally down the house but there are no walls dividing each family's quarters, though there is a fire-place for each family. There is a door at each end of this longitudinal wall and sometimes one or more other doors according to the length of the house. Access tn any particular family's quarters is obtained by going through one of the doors and walking through other people's quarters until the desired spot is reached. This is obviously a more primitive type of house than the Murut house, and it is at first difficult to see why in this the Murut is ahead of the Kelabit who has had the opportunity of copying from Kayans end Kenyahs, than whom there are no better house-builders in the country.
But there is an explanation which I am inclined to think is very probably true—improbable though it may sound. According to Kelabit custom the women do the courting and not the men. whereas with Muruts and all other tribes the men take the initiative. It was suggested to me by Penghulu Balang Ratu that some man, getting annoyed nt the frequency of his wife's or daughter's nocturnal wanderings, conceived the idea of building a wall.
As a result, short skirts being unsuitable for climbing walls, the initiative passed to the men. I cannot help feeling that there is some connection between the courting by women and the wall-less house and for lack of a better theory I am prepared to accept this.
Kelabits do not give "brian" for their wives as the initiative is taken by the woman.
The courting by the women is presumably a survival of matriarchy, I hough there is no other sign of it in any of their customs. It is probable that this was originally the custom of both Muruts and Kelabits. as I believe it to be quite unknown for a people to revert to matriarchy, but it is not difficult to see that., however the difference may have originated, when once the Muruts had started the idea of the men faking the initiative it is but a short and natural step to the asking of "brian.”
It is commonly said that the Kelabit and Murut languages are quite different. This misstatement is due to the fact that the accent and pronunciation are so dissimilar that to a person unacquainted with either language they appear to be two distinct languages whereas in fact they are the same. With a slight knowledge of Murut acquired in the Trusan I found no difficulty in understanding Kelabit, which seems to be merely a clearer and better enunciated form of Murut. with fewer sounds put in merely for the sake of euphony.
The same difference appears to exist between the Kayan languages as spoken in the Rejang and those spoken in the Baram—Kelabit and Rejang Kayan being far easier than Murut and Baram Kayan.
Customs as regards marriage, deaths and omens are similar with the exception of the giving of brian. Kelabits have for years followed the regular Baram fines for matrimonial and other offences and cannot be compared with the Muruts who settle such affairs according to their own ideas.
Burial customs are slightly different, the Kelabits sometimes using a coffin shaped like a dragon or buffalo and exposed in the jungle about three or four feet from the ground, whereas the Muruts invariably use a jar. This exposing of coffins is almost certainly borrowed from the Kayan and Kenyah salong, an elaborately carved post hearing the coffin.
Both Muruts and Kelabits have the same head- dance and song, but the Kelabits also use a regular drinking song, having probably borrowed the idea from the Kayans and Kenyahs who are the great exponents of these musical toasts.
The Kelabits use a very imperfect system of titles taken on the birth or death of children. This is undoubtedly borrowed from the Kenyahs.
Another custom common to both Muruts and Kelabits is that of making nabang and kawang as a sign of mourning. A nabang is a cutting made through the crest of a ridge after the manner of a railway cutting. Some hundreds of cubic feet of earth are shifted—a remarkable display of energy. This takes place at the con­ clusion of the wake and most of the participants are under the influence of burak. A kawang is a rentis about a chain wide cut through the jungle at the crest of a hill or ridge and visible for miles around. This is also a sign of mourning and is sometimes done instead of a nabang and some­ times in addition.
I had noticed nabang in the Ulu Trusan but thought they were merely road improvements till T visited the Kelabit country in the Ulu Baram.
It should be possible to trace the movements of the Muruts or Kelabits by these nabang which are permanent indications of habitation and should provide evidence as to where these people made their first appearance.
Temunan—monuments to liars—are common to both.
I think that the foregoing notes may be accepted as conclusive evidence that the Muruts and Kelabits were at one time one. and the same tribe. The question now arises, where, when and why did they separate? This it is impossible to answer as there is no evidence available. I think it may be assumed however that the Kelabits were the last to move off as they occur further south than the other kindred tribes, there are even traces of Kelabits in the Ulu Tinjar. On the other hand, if they all came in from the south the Kelabits are the original stock, though I think there is more like­ lihood of their having come from the north. I once thought I had obtained convincing proof of this on hearing that the Kelabits referred to the Muruts as Lun lenour—the people left behind. On investigat­ ing further I found they called them Lun lenoul— the people who wear wooden plugs in their ears; a useful lesson on the importance of verifying everything.
[This article is reprinted by courtesy of the author, and by permission of the Curator, Sarawak Museum, from Vol. XIV of the Sarawak Museum Journal, which is at present in the press. —ED.]
Air-Commodore Sidney W. Smith, Air Officer Commanding the R.A.F., Far East, will make an official flight- to Japan in February with the squadron of Singapore III flying boats stationed at Singapore.
The flight will lie the biggest ever under­ taken by the R.A.F.
No British Service aircraft has visited Japan previously, and the round trip of 7,000 miles, flown in formation by No. 205 (F.B.) squadron, will be one of the most spectacular ocean flights in history.
The total crew will be 21 officers and airmen.
The Japanese authorities arc arranging an official welcome for Air-Commodore Smith and the officers who will accompany him.
The outward route will be by way of Kuching, Kudat. Manila. Hong Kong, Amoy. Shanghai, Kagoshima. Tokio and Takyama, or some other place approved by the Japanese Government. For the return trip the Singapore III's will follow the same route to Hong Kong, and then fly by way of Kamranh Bay and Cochin China to Singapore.
Squadron-Leader Bladon, R.A.F. Intelligence Officer, will accompany the flight.
Wing-Commander C. L. Scott. D.S.C., will com­ mand the flying boats. Wing-Commaader Scott was in charge of the two Singapore III's that searched the Bay of Bengal and coasts and jungles for Air-Commodore Sir Charles Kingsford Smith and Captain T. Pethybridge.
Officers and airmen in the flying bouts will be: Wing-Commdr. Scott. Flying-Officer A. G. F.
Stewart. Fit. -Sgt. Hollobon, CpI. Fairweather, L. A C. Lloyd. L. A. C. Baker. A. C. I. Powell.
Squadron-Leader K. B. Lloyd, A.F.C. Flying- Officer D. Michell. Sgt. Jewiss, A. C. I. Wilkins, L. A. C. Morris, CpI. Fowgies, L. A. C. Regester.
Flight-Lieut. C. S. Riccard. Flying-Officer M. D.
Thunder. L. A. C. Howells, L. A. C. Stanley, A. C. I. Warren.
This will be the longest flight undertaken by the Singapore III flying boats since they flew out from England.
They have followed the tradition of the Southampton flying boats which were stationed in Singapore earlier by opening up new flying routes. Recently they went on a cruise to Hong Kong, via the Philip­ pines. returning via Indo-China.
The Singapore flying boats are Short long range reconnaissance machines, each powered by four Rolls-Royce engines of 560 h.p. They have a maxi­ mum speed of 145 m.p.h. and a cruising range of 1,000 miles. An automatic piloting device is fitted.
The main hull is divided into compartments, one being used as a wardroom by officers, with a chart table for the navigator. Further aft is a compartment for the wireless operator, and the engine controls.
The last compartment is fitted as a galley on one side and a workshop on the other, so that these three compartments make each boat a self-contained unit.
—Straits Times.
Until the publication of an article entitled “Achar” (Spoon-bait) in the Gazette of December 1933 drew attention to the excellent sport available in the “ulus" of our rivers, very little interest seems to have been taken in this method of fishing. For the best results with a spinner it is necessary to get well away from the beaten track where fish are plentiful and undisturbed. That is the main reason, probably, why spinning bus been ignored, because the average officer in his travels sees little except the populated areas of his district, and there is normally nothing to take him into the "wilds,” so to speak. Fish are scarce and well educated where he goes, being harried and exploited by every possible method known to the natives, especially Dayaks. To quote an example, recently I fished part of the Pelagus from just above Nanga Engkawat up to Nanga Iran, —five miles of really nice water within easy reach of Kapit. I never rose a fish. Later in the day I was informed by the head of a Dayak house in the Iran that the Pelagus had been "tuba-ed” from source to mouth twice within the last five months. There was hardly a minnow left alive, and provided this barbarous practice is not repeated (which it certainly will be) it will take a year at least before this stream has a normal stocking. As a contract, later, when fishing a tributary of the Menyong 'Balleh) far from any habitation and the same size as the Pelagus, eight and a half brace of semah averaging two catties were landed in just under two hours.
Fresh water fishing has been almost entirely neglected by Europeans in Sarawak, largely for the above reasons.
It is passable that there are some who have tried this sport successful but have said nothing about it. indeed, anyone returning from a trip up river who announced to the ring in the Club that lie had shot a rhino would probably get more credence than the man who said that he had caught a 20-lb. empurau on a spinner, although this is by no means difficult feat in the upper reaches of the Balleh when engkabang and ensurai are fruiting.
During the past year it has been my luck to fish some excellent water. In May and June, I was surveying in the Pala Wong district of the Baloi, the true right branch of the Lejang about half-way beween Kapit and Belaga. The Bah and the Sama are two streams on the true right bank of the Balni whose headwaters join those of the Tatau and Bintulu rivers. The district is sparsely populated by Punan Bah who do not use tuba, hence fish are fairly plentiful, but educated. The total bag for this tup was twelve-and-a-half brace in ten days’ fishing, of which three days were blank. During the rest of the trip there was no opportunity to fish as the water was out of order. This last con­ tingency is all too frequent owing to the heavy rainfall of this country. The bulk of the bag consisted of adong, and the best fish turned the scale at about five catties. Both the Bah and the Sama are slow-flowing streams with few rapids; the water is slightly coloured even in normal conditions, and would in England be associated with coarse fish. In August, and September I was in the head­ waters of the Balleh, the true left branch of the
Rejang. This river is Uninhabited above Nanga Putai, and is only visited by odd parlies of Dayaks who go up to work jungle produce from time to time. The Balleh and its tributaries are fast­ running clear streams with a variety of fish which will take a spinner. The total bag for this trip was forty-one brace in. fifteen days’ fishing, with three blank days. The heaviest fish was a Kaloi of sixteen catties. The best catch was made in the Menyong between Nanga Sabatu and Nanga Entulu in late afternoon while the coolies were making camp. Fishing for just under two hours ten fish were landed averaging live catties each, three kaloi, five semah, one udong and one empurau.
Two rods are not essential, but are an advantage.
A light single-handed rod of nine to ton feet and a double-handed rod of twelve to fourteen feet, both on the stiff side, will meet the occasion, with any well-known type of spinning reel mounted with fifty yards of undressed coarse line and twenty-five feet of undressed silk backing. A short wire trace with a swivel mounted at either end is better than the usual standard length trace at home. Hooks of all descriptions should be of the strongest; Hardy's Mahseer triangles are recommended, as the fish arc extremely hard of mouth and bend and smash ordinary light-weight hooks. A landing net (tabir) can always be borrowed from any Dayak house.
The usual types of spoon-bait kill very well, but the most killing pattern was one locally made from Muntz metal. This bait was in the shape of an arrow and mounted with one treble hook in the angle, the wings being bent out in opposite directions to make it spin. All fish took this lure readily when on the feed. Spoons should not exced three inches in length over all, and smaller patterns should also be carried, since small fly spoons kill well in the smaller streams. When water is too clear and low for a spinner excellent sport can be had by fishing a grasshopper down the runs like a wet fly. When fishing in this fashion advantage should be taken of all natural cover as fish are extremely shy, even in the most remote streams.
Conditions yielding the best sport vary. Pish seem to come on the feed at any time between dawn and dusk, and it was noticed on several occasions that when the water was in order and the fish were not on the move the stream was nearly always in spate during the next few hours. Ideal conditions are when a stream is running clear after a flood, or conversely, a slight rise of the stream not enough to colour the water but enough to bring down odd debris and get the fish on the mere.
In conclusion a short note on the types of fish caught might not he out of place.
EMPURAU. (Leptobarbus hoeveni.) A very hand­ some fish and a grand fighter. Likes fast gravel streams. Runs up to twenty catties and over, and is excellent eating and consequently much prized by the natives of the rivers in which it occurs. It has nice lines, is reddish-olive in colour and mainly vegetarian in habit, and is in best condition when the fruits of engkabang or ensurai are falling.
Takes an all-bronze or copper spoon better than a nickel one.
SEMAH. (Labeobarbus douronensis.) The com­
monest fish in all fast running, gravel streams.
Golden olive-green in colour. Takes a bait very warily and always follows it for a short distance when he can. Takes best in fast water where he has not much time to make up his mind, is an excellent fighter and sometimes behaves like a sea trout when first honked. Does not run much over seven catties, and the smaller fish fight better than the heavier ones, which are apt to sulk after their first rush.
ADONG. (Barbus sumatranus.) Not a very hand­ some fish, predatory and extremely voracious.
Takes very freely and is not unlike a pike in habits. It is not particularly good eating, but is a determined fighter when hooked and never knows when he is beaten. He has to be treated with respect too, being up to all the tricks of fouling one's line. Readily distinguished by its enormous mouth, pink fins and tail and black vertical bars on the body just to the rear of the dorsal fin. Runs up to eight catties in weight.
DUNGAN. (Barbus macrolepidotus.) Much the
same as an adong both in colour and habits.
KALOI. (Lobotes saravacensis.) A large fish
rather resembling a perch. Is not good eating, the flesh being hard and tasting strongly. Frequents deep still water, and according to the Dayaks does not ordinarily take a spinner, being usually caught by "dapping" with a grassshopper. It is a sluggish fish which likes to bask near the surface, and is an easy mark for a. fish spear. When hooked fights well, making a series of strong deep rushes. —B.J.C.S.
I have heard it remarked, by more than one European, that a good curry is the best dish in the world. With that assertion I most heartily agree.
Perhaps there is no other dish in the wide, wide, world which has so universal an appeal. No one but the Scot really loves his beloved haggis, and it is not everyone who cares for the roast beef of the English, the paté-de-foie-gras of the French, or the macaroni of the Italian. But whoever tastes a good curry will yearn for it again and again, not unlike the prince in the Arabian tale who pined for the Grecian slave he loved and lost. The most fastidious epicure, the most delicate palate, finds in the curry a subtle something—flavour, if you like, — which is unknown to any other dish which the ingenuity of man has devised.
It was only the other night that I was watching some Europeans- four of them, to be exact, — crowding round a Malabari street stall and pitching into whole platefuls of rice and curry with evident satisfaction and relish. In parenthesis, let me here tell you that you should always call it "rice and curry," not "curry and rice," as I have heard it termed in this country. "Bread and butter," not "butter and bread," "whisky and soda," never "soda and whisky.” It is like that, you know.
The one is a necessary adjunct of the other. You do not eat curry without rice, nor butter without bread, although 1 happen to know quite a few who ran take whisky without soda, or anything else for that mailer. But all this is by the way. As I was saying, I was keenly interested in these gentlemen enjoying themselves so heartily. Perhaps it was not quite the right thing for me to do. But I was amused, even fascinated, by the sight. The fact was. I was in search of rice and curry myself that night. It was pretty late and I knew I couldn't get it elsewhere. When nt last the party left, it didn't require any great powers of reasoning on my part to deduce that nothing nt all was left behind for another customer. The elfish grin of the Malabari told its own tale. I did not go to the stall that night. But the incident left me thinking. The whole thing was so obviously wrong from beginning to end. I mean the manner in which it was eaten.
and, for all I know, the manner in which it was prepared. I shall make no apology, therefore, for giving you a few desultory hints on curry and how it should be eaten.
Let me tell you right here that I do not pretend to know anything very much about the Indian curry that we are so accustomed to out here. What 1 would tell you is about the Ceylon curry as prepared by the Sinhalese, and which I consider is the curry par excellence. I shall not, I hope, he accused of a national partiality for so extolling the product of my country, for it is also the considered opinion of those who have partaken of both preparations. If you asked me wherein lay the difference, candidly I must confess I couldn't tell you. The spices used are very much the same, except that we, in Ceylon, use a few more ingredients which are absent in the Indian concoction. So also does the Indian use at least one spice which we never use at all Bin for all that there is a world of difference—a difference, in this case, with a real distinction. Give me the Ceylon curry. I say—EVERY TIM E.
Curry, in Ceylon, can be traced back to the very dawn of Sinhalese history. How man first came to eat curry is very much like the story told by Lamb as to how the Chinese first came to eat roust pig; but whereas "A Dissertation on Roast Pig" is ex­ quisitely humourous, the story told of the first curry that was ever eaten has in it something a little vulgar, so 1 desist from giving you the yarn. He that as it may, tradition has it that when Wijaya, thee prince from the Punjab, and his followers first landed in Ceylon—Lanka as it was then known— in 543 B.C., he was entertained to a curry tiffin by Quennie, queen of the Yakkas and Sagas. Salted wild boar curry it was, and the prince who had never tasted anything like it before, instead of carrying out his original plan of conquest, disbanded his soldiers, and lived on the friendliest terms with The princess whom he later took to wife. (A tip for the Negus. If he has anything as good as a curry in his culinary repertoire to bribe the Italian general with, the world’s history might not be changed after all; and it will save poor Mr. Eden a world of trouble). Another story is told of how, in more recent times, the master of a British windjammer having acquired a relish for curry, was so loath to leave the island that he stayed on indefinitely, eating curry all the time, and how at last, when the day of reckoning arrived, he was obliged to barter his ship in full satisfaction of the curries he had eaten. This story, I fancy, is too good to be true, but it. serves to emphasize how tempting a good curry can be, and to what lengths a man may go to procure it.
There is an erroneous belief that there is but one curry and that it is always the same. The fact is there is an infinite variety of it. To mention only a few, we have the dry curry and the hot curry, the mustard curry and the white curry, the red curry and the black curry, the long curry with its thin and ample gravy, and the short curry the gravy of which is thick. Then there is the devil curry which consists of at least three different curries cooked overnight and blended with infinite care. Indeed, a more appropriate name for this excellent hotchpotch could not have been given, for it has a devilishly fine flavour. And there are a host of other curries for which I don't know the Christian names. Every one of these has a distinct taste and a flavour peculiarly its own. Then again, each of these changes its characteristics as to taste and flavour according to whether it be fish, flesh, or fowl that is curried.
Chicken curry, I find, is a favourite with those to whom this is not a habitual dish, and I shall there­ fore tell you how you should set about making one.
Here, again let me remind you that just as it is ever so much nicer to speak of "soiled linen” rather than "dirty linen," so also it is more elegant to say "chicken curry" rather than call it by that foul name "fowl curry."
The choice of the chicken is an important factor in the making of an efficient curry. In Ceylon, a cockerel is the rule rather than the exception.
Your bird should be young and plump. It should be as yet quite innocent of what, in elegant par­ lance, we call "sex appeal," but not so young that it may not, tomorrow or the day after, try its wings in a first little flutter of love. That is the bird for this great immolation. Opinion is still divided as to whether it should be tamely taken out of its cage one fine morning, or whether it should not be caught, after an exciting chase, in your back yard.
This latter method, if it can claim nothing else for the prospective curry, has at least the advantage of sharpening your appetite for tiffin, and is especially recommended for the fat man with a bulging tummy, and for the lady, too, whom the French­ man would describe as being en bon point. Having seemed such a specimen (a chicken I mean, not a lady), we send the dear little tiling as gently as possible to its eternal rest. Strangulation is recommended as the best means of conserving the blood. but what with our present day laws and these societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals this method is now quite obsolete. The artist who knows anything about curry will never skin his bird, for there, between the skin and the meat is an oily secretion which should not be lost for love or money. Our next step would be to give it a baptism by total immersion in boiling water, and despoiled of the feathers, which will come off quite easily, it will soon appear before, us for judg­ ment in all its naked beauty. There is no special method in which it should be chopped up, hut this may be done in neat little joints or in large chunks, according as to whether you are a gourmet or a gourmand. I really don't know how I should advise you about its head and claws. I think it is positively disreputable to cook them in your curry, although my wife will surreptitiously include them, and eat them too, before I can get home. As for throwing away the pope's nose—Good Heavens, No! That is the chicken's choicest morsel.
And now let me initiate, you into the mysteries of that paste -a delicate blending of many spices— vulgarly known as "curry stuff.'’ While on the subject of spices, let me tell you that I have always thought that Bishop Heber could never have eaten a Ceylon curry If he had had that great privilege, I think his Muse would have inspired him differently when he wrote his famous lines. Some­ thing like this his song would then have been. I imagine:
Hut to the subject. The, various spices should be bought fresh. None of your curry powders, if you please. They are an abomination. In this vulgar commercial age when practically everything is so efficiently bottled and canned for your convenience, it is a curious fact that “curry stuff" is one of the few nice things of life that will not lend itself to this bottling process. The paste must always be freshly ground every time you make your curry, and your grinding stone should be smooth and mellowed with age. I shall not waste your time or mine in attempting to describe the slow rhythmic motion in which you should run the roller of the grinding stone backward and forward, moistening every now and then the spices with a few drops of cold water so as to form the whole into a fine paste.
You can see the process for yourself at the market any day, any morning. Never cook your curry in any other but an earthenware vessel. The one frequently used is somewhat in the shape of a small basin, and in our lingo is called a chatty. I think the Malays call it blanga. It is also important that your chatty should be one that has been in use for several months, one which is black with soot on the outside, whatever colour it may be inside. A new chatty, straight from the bazaar, will communicate to your curry an earthy smell which would be absolutely fatal.
The following is a recipe for a short curry, one with a thick gravy which, I am sure, you will find delightful.
Ingredients: 1 tablespoonful sliced red onions, 4 large pips of garlic (chopped), 2 slices green ginger (chopped), a pinch of ground saffron. 20 dry chillies (roasted and ground), 1/2 teaspoon fenugreek, 6 cloves, (1 tablespoonful coriander seed. 1 tea- spoonful white cumin seed, 1/2 teaspoon sweet cumin seed—all roasted and ground together), 1 tablespoonful ghee, salt. 2-inch piece cinnamon. 2- inch piece rampa (Malay: daun pandan), 1/4 stem lemon grass, a small sprig of curry leaves (Sinha­
lese: karapincha, Botanical: Murraya Koengii.
Butacea), the juice of one lemon, 3 teacups coconut milk (extract of one coconut).
Method: Cut the chicken into neat joints, and put them into the chatty with the rest of the ingredients, excepting the ghee and the lemon juice, and boil until the chicken is tender and the gravy reduced to very little. Then remove the chicken from the gravy and fry it in the ghee, pour back the gravy and keep on a slow fire for a couple of minutes longer. Add the lemon juice before taking off the fire.
By this time a wonderful odour would have begun to assail your nostrils and you will be all un- conciously smacking your lips in eager anticipation.
To my mind this would be just the time to take a good bath—use plenty of soap and water—to open out every one of your pores for the function they will be called upon to perform in the not far distant future. This would be also the time to send your toti* for a bottle of that harmless beverage—toddy.
It is cheap—only twelve cents the bottle. It is the next best thing in the absence of Ceylon arrack (the distillation of the coconut toddy), and will prove a fitting prelude. Today, by the way. is not a spirit, and I assure you that you can take a whole bottle of it, or even two, without any compunction? If. however, you like a kick in it. slice a few red onions and a few dry chillies into a tumbler and pour your liquid over it. adding just a pinch of salt to taste.
Let it stand for half an hour: drain the. sediment and drink at a gulp.
And now yon are ready to eat your curry. But I would have you eat it in the true oriental fashion according to the immemorial custom of the East.
You shall, then, discard your pantaloons for a soft
sarong, and your body shall be bare; or if you prefer to have something on. let it be a singlet or a shirt of the flimsiest material. Indian silk is indicated. Please to do away for once with your plush-backed chair and your decorated table with its damask cloth, its Dresden china, and its Sheffield cutlery. Instead, you squat yourself on a mat. A green plantain leaf cut, into a convenient square will serve you for a most hygenic plate. The rice shall then lie brought in—steaming hot. Muttu samba of the first quality it should be, not the highly polished rice from Siam, so tasteless and deficient in the valuable vitamins. It should have been boiled to a turn so that the grains shall fall through your fingers in a patter, like a heap of pearls, on the leaf before you. each grain a separate entity. As this grade of rice cannot be procured in this country, a good quality Dyak rice should prove a fair'substitute.
Two other dishes, at least, must be served with your curry if you would enjoy it with eclat—a fried brinjal -lew and a sweet maldive fish sambal (Recipes on application). Heap your rice in a little hillock and spread the gravy generously all over it.
Arrange a few pieces of the meat all round, and also a little of the brinjal and less of the sambal. You will use your fingers, of course. Nothing can be more satisfactory than your fingers for mixing the gravy with the rice to bring the mess to its right consistency. Indeed, a rice and curry eaten with spoon and fork has a tendancy to lose most of its taste and something of its flavour. And now you fall to it with a zeal. Masticate well each mouthful until it would go down the gullet with hardly an effort. Crunch the bone and suck its marrowy juice. It is worth it. And do not hesitate to belch if you are so inclined. To the Westener all this might sound a little gauche, but what does it matter.
It is the enjoyment of the curry that matters after nil. For ourselves. I must own, we arc not over squeamish about these little niceties. With about the sixth mouthful there, will begin to exude from your body a slow perspiration. It will not stream down in large beady drops, but would rather be an imperceptible moistening of the outer man. That is the infallible indication that your curry is just right.
There is no general rule I can think of as to how much of the rice and curry should be good for you to eat. For myself. I eat as much as I possibly can. until there no room for more, and if I should find some difficulty in resuming my perpendicular posture. I take it to be a good sign that I have done exceedingly well. Drink your water sparingly after the meal if you would avoid an uneasy gurgling in your gastric regions, but you may have your fill sometime later, and you will need it too. One objection to eating a curry with your fingers, I am told, is that it leaves a spicy odour which no amount of soap will effectively dispel. I should have no objection. For each time you stroked your chin or twirled your moustache it would serve to remind you of the glorious repast you have so thoroughly enjoyed.
My remarks, however desultory they may be, would certainly be incomplete, if I did not tell you that rice, especially when eaten at mid-day, produces a sort of coma, a langourous drowsiness, which is not easily shaken off. Yield to it by all means, for as your medical adviser will no doubt tell you, an after­ noon siesta, as he would probably call it, is the most beneficial thing for keeping you fit and prolonging your life in the tropics. And if you should snore- well. that would only be in noisy but unconcious appreciation of the meal you will remember till the end of your days.
Jones, A.R.M. of a Government station in the Gulf Division of Papua, had sent for a man who was reported to have given one of his boys a gun. without being in possession of the necessary permit.
In due course the delinquent arrived at the station. He may be called Smith. The A.R.M. declared the “Court of Petty Sessions to be open."
Smith pleaded guilty. Judgment was pronounced by the A.H.M.: "Five pounds, or fourteen days.” Smith hadn’t a penny, and elected to "lake it out,"
He had his meals at the A.R.M.'s bungalow, and was instructed by the A.R.M. to issue rations, and superintend a gang of native prisoners who were doing odd jobs about the station.
Three days later, news came of trouble in the Marfula district. It was essential that the A.R.M. should lose no time in getting inland to attend to it.
He told Smith to carry on until his return. and left with his policy and carriers.
Two days later, a man (Robinson) came in. He had been sent for to answer exactly the same charge as in Smith’s case. Smith, with the correct procedure fresh in his memory, told the new arrival that the A.R.M. was away, but had instructed him to carry on.
Smith accordingly held court, and conducted the case quite correctly. Robinson admitted that ho had broken the law, and judgment was given— "Five pounds, or 14 days."
Robinson did not possess the proverbial bean; so Smith handed over the issuing of rations to him, and the supervision of the prisoners Smith, ns senior prisoner, took charge. He also took his ease.
A few days later, the little steamer under the B.P. flag came along the coast, and Smith decided to call it a day, and left the station, with a feeling that he had been a very good boy indeed.
This incident, which is related in the October number of the Pacific Islands Monthly, calls to mind a chestnut which has been going the rounds for many years. It is alleged to be true, and the episode it describes is said to have taken place to a Sarawak out­ station. Its exact origin, however, has been obscured by the mists of time, and the story has doubtless been attributed to a number of other countries in the East. Anyway, here it is.
In a certain lonely outstation, the only Europeans were the District Officer and his assistant. Not unnaturally they used to break the monotony of their existence by holding an occasional party, and on one. occasion, having lunched rather too well, they decided to go for a bicycle ride to cool their throbbing heads. As they flashed through the bazaar, a Chinese hawker, complete with his stock- in-trade. emerged suddenly from a side turning; both bicycles collided with him, and the resultant smash was a masterpiece of its kind. The hawker, his stall, the two bicycles and their riders, all flew in different directions; when the irate Chinaman had been soothed, the two Europeans left the wrecks of their machines where they lay, and walked home sadder and wiser men.
Unfortunately, though a keen young Sub­ Inspector of Police happened to be taking the air in the bazaar just at this moment, and since he was out for promotion as well as for a makan angin, he promptly took cognizance of the affair in his official capacity. On the following morning, therefore, the smash figured as the first and most important case m the Report Book which he handed to the D.O.
This gentleman, in some confusion, called for his assistant, and a conference ensued.
The whole thing, of course, was most unfortunate (they said), but there could be no doubt that the impartiality of the law must be upheld. It. would never do, they agreed, for them to ignore an offence which, if it had been committed by a native or a Chinese, would certainly have resulted in a court case and a line. They therefore reluctantly decided Hint there was nothing for it but to proceed with the matter and. since both were magistrates, it was agreed that each should try the other, with the Sub-Inspector prosecuting on behalf of the complainant.
Accordingly, when the ordinary cases were dis­ posed of the Assistant District Officer left the bench and took his seat in the body of the Court before his senior. The Clerk of the Court read out the charge, which was to the effect that the accused had ridden a bicycle through the bazaar while in a state of intoxication, and had thereby endangered life and property: the accused pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to a fine of $10 and costs.
The District Officer and the Assistant District Officer then changed places. The latter, putting on his most impressive magisterial air, stared severely nr his senior officer, and opened the case by remarking that he was distressed to find a European in the dock, since such a thing could not but set a deplorable example to the natives and have an adverse effect on European prestige. When he had finished his little homily, he glanced at the charge sheet, and his eye-brows rose perceptibly. “Hallo, hallo, what's this?" he exclaimed. "I See that you are charged with riding a bicycle while in a state of intoxication and thereby endangering life and property. There has already been one conviction on this charge this morning: this offence appears to be becoming prevalent, and an exemplary sentence must he imposed. You are therefore fined $20 and Costs.” History does not repeat what passed between the two magistrates when they met outside the Court House; probably because it was unrepeatable.
We print, below an interesting extract front H. E. the Governor’s address to the Legislative Council of British North Borneo of December 9th, 1935. The address was printed as a special supplement to the British
North Borneo Herald.
For some time past the decline in the numbers of the indigenous population in certain districts of the Stale has caused anxiety; and Government has decided to carry out a thorough investigation into the causes of this decline in numbers. We have been fortunate enough to obtain for the purpose the services of Dr. J. O. Shircore, C.M.G. who is a recognized authority on this and kindred subjects, and of Mr. G. C. Woolley whose knowledge of the natives of this country is perhaps unrivalled.
"Honourable Members may think it curious that I should mention such a subject in the course of an Address devoted almost entirely to economic questions. But, quite apart from any humanitarian considerations, it is obvious that the health of any population is an economic question of prime importance. Unhealthy men must be drones in the body politic; while the healthy are at least potential producers. During the past ten years 46,000 cases of yaws have been treated by the Medical Department.
That means, economically. that so many thousands of the population have been enabled to produce and to pay taxes who would otherwise have been a liability rather than an asset—an economic fact of real importance to the State. The public owe a deep debt of gratitude to my Honourable friend the Principal Medical Officer and his Department. How great that debt is may be gauged by the fact that the number of out-patients treated in our hospitals and dispensaries has been quadrupled in a decade, from 43,650 in 1925 to 174,899 in 1934."
On Saturday, December 6th, at 11.15 a.m. Mr.
A. L. McLaine. Divisional Treasurer. Third Division, was married at St. Thomas' Pro-Cathedral to Miss S. M. J. Ennion, the Rev. Father W. Shelley officiating.
The bride was given away by her brother-in-law.
Mr. B. J. C. Spurway, and Mr. A. G. Taylor acted as best man. After the service at the Cathedral a reception was held at "The Hill." the residence of Mr. H. B. Crocker. About thirty guests were present, including Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee, and Dayang Valerie.
The health of the bride and bridegroom was pr posed by Mr. Crocker in a very neat-speech in which he said that in this life one was so rarely able to see two genuinely happy people that we ought to thank the bride and bridegroom for affording us that pleasure. After the toast had been drunk with acclamation, the bridegroom expressed his thanks in a few well-chosen words.
The “going-away," which was a hilarious affair, evoked the traditional showers of rice and confetti, and someone thoughtfully attached an old shoe and an enormous frying-pan to the back of the bride­ groom's car after he and his bride were safely inside; the clatter that this made as the ear drove away was only drowned by the shouts of good wishes which attended the happy couple’s departure.
The going-away dress of both bride and bridegroom consisted of shorts and a green polo shirt, and, as can well be imagined, they made the most effective pair.
The honeymoon was spent at Sibu Lant, and later in Singapore and Penang. We take this chance of wishing Mr. and Mrs. McLaine all good luck in the future, —if their married life is as cheerful as their marriage, and as great a success, they will have nothing much to worry about.
Muda-mudahan umor panjang dan murah rezki!
A certain gentleman, talking in the bar before the rise of the curtain on the fourth production of the K.A.D.S., was heard to remark gloomily that to expect, a high degree of entertainment was to invite disillusionment, since amateur theatricals' were invariably conducted solely for the amusement of the performers, though, he added, this object was sometimes thinly disguised under a cloak of charitable endeavour, it is not recorded whether after the performance his liverish outlook had changed, but there can have been few who left the club on Christmas Eve without the feeling of having passed an interesting and amusing evening.
In spite of this it must be admitted that, although the K.A.D.S. spared us the sensation of “supporting a good cause" it is doubtful whether our probable reactions were allowed to interfere unduly with the smooth course of production. There were indications of this in the casting, and again, in the way the producers' kindliness occasionally triumphed over their sense of public duty so that they passed small faults of technique which might have been corrected by a little timely brutality; but our chief complaint is against the continued insistance on short plays. Short plays have the advantage, admittedly, of "giving everyone a turn," but they tend to deprive the entertainment of "body" and to cramp the style of the more out­ standing performers for the benefit of their weaker brethren, and to the distress of the audience. The last three performances of the K.A.D.S. have con­ sisted entirely of short plays, and have given us more than ample proof that the society Contains some very talented members—when are they to have the chance to give their talents rein?
It would be unfair to criticise the first play, J. M. Barrie's Half an Hour, in detail. Whether Barrie wrote it for the stage is doubtful, but there is no doubt whatever that its successful production demands a first class professional cast, and the K.A.D.S. found the difficult dialogue and the creation of the necessary emotional atmosphere too much for it. Many people must still be wondering what it was all about.
The failure of Half an Hour, however, was brilliantly atoned for by The Unforgivable (the order of the plays was, incidentally, most wisely chosen) which dramatizes the joke of the husband who forgives his friend for making off with his wife and his most cherished personal belongings, but is driven to murder when the former is promptly returned to him. The joke is an old one, but Mrs.
Gibson and Messrs. Kelley, Harding and Mitchell put new life into it, and we soon found ourselves roaring with laughter, not. as is often the case, at the sight of our friends in fancy dress behaving in an unusual manner, but at the play. Mr. Mitchell as the not too bright young thing. Brown, deserves most praise, but Messrs, Kelley and Harding were both excellent and ran him very close indeed while Mrs. Gibson was convincing in her smaller part.
The curtain rises in the third play (The Death Trap by "Saki”) on three officers (Messrs. Kelley, Whale and Benson) who are only awaiting the relief of a royal regiment at the palace to murder their Prince (Mr. Mitchell). The Prince is left alone with his friend the royal physician (Mr.
Daubeny) to whom he discloses his knowledge of the plot, and bewails the fact that he must die with so much of life unlived. The loyal regiment is heard marching out and heavy footsteps sound out­ side the door when the doctor seizes his stethoscope
and begins to examine the Prince as the assassins enter. He is ordered to withdraw, but announces gravely that the Prince is mortally ill and has only six days to live. The assassins, relieved, go out, and the Prince turns joyfully to the doctor who tells him, however, that his diagnosis was a true one.
The Prince refuses to wait for death, and, procuring a deadly poison from his friend, succeeds, by poisoning a bottle of wine, in taking his enemies with him to the grave.
In some ways this was the most interesting play- on the evening. The peculiarly macabre atmosphere which “Saki" creates even in his humorous stories is amazingly difficult to reproduce on the stage, and again we had the players struggling with a task which was almost beyond their powers.
They succeeded admirably, however, in holding our interest, and Mr. Mitchell is to be congratulated on a convincing, if rather too restrained, performance.
He has a delightful speaking voice, and was perhaps the outstanding figure of the evening. The play gave the other members of the cast little opportunity to create the characters they represented, but they provided an adequate. and picturesque background for the part of the Prince. The uniforms were admirable, though we should have preferred to have seen the royal physician in civilian dross with cloak and beard.
Her Highness the Bailee's play. The Merry Matrons, came last on the programme, and. going with a swing from start to finish, brought the evening's entertainment to a fitting close. The play is a light satire on the “mems' " side, not, of the Sarawak Club, of course, but of any club in the Far East, though this did not prevent us from confidently identifying the characters with Kuching ladies of our own acquaintance; and, had the play itself been less amusing, a good time would still have been had by all. Actually Her Highness had clearly been unable to prevent the milk of human kindliness from mingling with the vitriol in her pen, and by cleverly extracting the worst traits of people here and there and combining them to form a single character, she gave everybody the opportunity to say “well, at any rate, that can't be me," and so to avoid the wounds usually associated with the throwing of acid.
The plot of the play is only a light frame on which to hang the satire of the dialogue, and deals briefly with the gathering of the vultures before the arrival of a new cadet at some time in the future when, we are told, young men will be scarce. The inevitable climax comes with the arrival of the now cadet wearing the air of one who has lived (and died) and bringing with him a wife, two children and a black amah. Consternation of the vultures. Curtain Mrs. Baird was perhaps slightly the best of a very good cast, but Mrs. Daubeny, loaded with the sins of at least four different people, gave an admirable, though slightly overdrawn, performance, and Mrs. Calvert was excellent. Neither Dayang Valerie nor Mrs. Kelley had quite such good lines as the others, but each in her own way struck exactly the right note, as also did Mrs. Pollard (in silence) and Mr. Blagg.
After the final curtain bouquets were presented, to the accompaniment of loud and enthusiastic applause, to Their Highnesses the Ranee and the Dayang Valerie, and so many nice things were said about everybody that it will be a sufficient tribute to all those who worked so nobly behind the scenes to say now that throughout the performance we were never conscious of anything but the scene being enacted upon the stage. —E.M.S.
Unfortunately, the Sylvia Cinema was closed during the first part of November as a result of the diphtheria epidemic, but it re-opened on the 12th with The Camels Are Coming, a farce which gave Jack Hulbert ample scope for his particular brand of clowning; very good medicine, and just what we needed to cheer us up. The plot—well, what does the plot matter when Jack's around? Suffice to say that as an officer in the Royal Air Force he triumphantly defeated a ring of dope smugglers after a succession of ludicrous blunders, winning fame and a charming bride in the person of Anna Lee, a most engaging young actress, Good clean fun.
In The Masquerader. Ronald Colman showed once again what a remarkably good actor he is. He had a most difficult part, and one in which the slightest false note would have meant disaster, since he had to double the roles of John Chilcote, the party lender and future Premier, and John Loder, the struggling journalist. He succeeded, not in showing us the same man differently dressed, but in presenting two entirely different personalities and being convincing in both. The story of the nobody who at short notice has to impersonate a famous statesman and then rises nobly to a crisis is not new. but Colman gave il life and made it genuinely moving; incidentally. his speech in parliament might well be copied by some of our present politicians, whose delivery is not always up to the standard of their subject-matter. Elissa Landi as Eve Chilcote. the faithful wife of the debauched and worthless party leader, was perfectly east: when it comes to straight' plays of this nature you can put all the shimmering Hollywood stars in the bag as far it’s at least one critic is concerned. —for charm and real dramatic sense Elissa Landi has them all mid.
Halliwell Hobbes gave a first-rate performance as Brock, Chilcote’s butler, and Helen Jerome Eddy was good as Robbins, the down-at-heel lodging-house drudge. Altogether a film worth seeing, and not less so for being preceded by Disney's Three Little Pigs, —one of the best of them. Silly Symphonies, and
equalled only by The Tortoise and the Hare, which
we saw some days later.
And now we come to the anniversary perfor­ mance. which took place on November 24th. The film shown on this occasion was Gay Divorcee, stalling Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, and a better choice could not have been made. It played to packed houses for three days, and no wonder; this is the best film of its kind that has yet come to Kuching. It is a film which every British Producer ought to be forced to see twice daily for the next two years. Somerset Maugham achieved his present lucid anil trenchant prose style largely through coyping out daily in long-hand passages from writers such as Swift. Defoe and Sterne; there is at least a chance that the continual spectacle of perfectly designed settings, perfect dancing, and superb production, coupled with good acting, slick and witty dialogue, and really tuneful music might eventually move the most unimagina­ tive B.P. out of the slough of banality in which he is at present sunk. Anyhow, anything that had even a faint chance of succeeding would be worth trying. British producers of musical screen play wonder helplessly why, after years of subsidies and endeavour, they are still unable to compete with Hollywood in anything but the most restricted
British markets; well. Gay Divorcee. will tell them.
If they still cannot see the light, then there is no hope for them. Let us surrender the whole of our musical-comedy market to America and have done with it. At least we shall get Entertainment; did you notice the capital E?
Gay Divorcee is that rarest of things, a musical comedy in which some imagination has been expended over the casting. Fred Astaire and Ginger Bogers are—well, just Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, but they fit exactly into their roles of the professional dancer who is mistaken for a professional co-respondent, and the rich young wife who is seeking relief from a geological-minded husband. Alice Brady was the ideal choice for the managing and much-married American Aunt (who is there who doesn't know this formidable creature!), and Eric Rhodes struck just the right note of oiliness as the Italian pro-co, as those gentlemen are known in legal circles: whether Mussolini will be flattered remains to be seen.
Edward Everett Horton was delightfully inane in the part of the nit-wit lawyer; —he is an actor to watch.
The only fault in this splendid film was one to which American producers are all too prone, —over­ emphasis. But this only occurred at one point, namely during the dance-number "Continental." which was drawn out to unconscionable lengths, so we really cannot grumble. The dancing of Fred Astaire in the other number. "Sight and Day'' was a revelation; what polished technique, what perfect timing, what superb sense of rythm! All other dancers seem like clumsy amateur’s niter these two.
Having just thoroughly disparaged British musical films, it is a relief to turn to the exception that proves the rule. Brewster's Millions. featuring Jack Buchanan. was sheer joy from start to finish.
Jack was at his gayest and best, and his best can be very, very good indeed; as a dancer he is the nearest approach to Fred Astaire that we can boast, and his personality is, if anything, even more attractive. But although the whole performance went with a swing, one felt, somehow, that there was a faint but perceptible lack of the essential something in the production; Jack was not adequately supported, for one thing—Lili Damita does not seem the right choice for his leading lady, and the others in the east were undistinguished : one fell that they were merely actors and actress transferred bodily from the legitimate stage with no conception of the fact that the screen is a totally different medium, demanding quite a different technique. But Jack carried the play to success on his shoulders, and took all obstacles in his stride.
Definitely a three-star show.
Impersonation was to the fore again in Folies Bergèrcs. in which Maurice Chevalier, complete with under-lip. rushed from a Paris music-hall to take the part in real life of the millionaire financier whom he had often impersonated on the stage. Merle Oberon was devastatingly attractive as Baroness Cassini, the financier’s wife, and Ann Southern gave an effective study of Mimi, the guttersnipe termagant of the chorus. An amusing show with a reasonably ingenious plot, and one which held the attention. But what a pity it is that Maurice sings all his songs on one note!
Alas! Not all the wealth of Hollywood can graft a musical ear on one who is not so gifted by nature, and there it is. That lip makes up for a lot.
Paraphrasing the words of Thackeray, one might almost describe Maurice as being 'Lip—more—lip —and then nothing.! But doubtless his admirers land they are legion) will not agree with this judgment.
In A Cuckoo in the Nest, the Ralph Lynn-Tom Walls team hashed up the same old formula once again, and once too often. It may, of course, be wildly funny to watch someone trying to go to sleep under a washhand stand, but after twenty minutes of it the humour somehow begins to pale.
And this applies to all the rest of the film. The jokes were not merely rubbed into one, —they were hammered in. beaten in with a heavy mallet until one began to wonder whether they were jokes at nil or merely concentrated agony of soul. Tom Walls drunk for five minutes is amusing; but Tom Walls drunk for two hours on end becomes a weariness of the flesh, almost ns tiresome, in fact, as the real thing. Yvonne Arnaud did what she could to put some leaven of wit into this soggy mass of dough, but her efforts were foredoomed to failure. Tom Walls and Co. can do a lot better than this. '
Other notable films included Legong, a charm­ ing picture of Bali acted by an all-native east, and the Last Gentleman which starred George Arliss in a riot of false sentiment and G. Arliss; the two are rapidly becoming inseparable.
Sixty-four civil and sixty-six criminal cases came before the Kuching Courts during November Of the latter, twenty-six were for breaches of Municipal by-laws.
Four inquiries into deaths were held in Kuching during November. The first, on the body of a Chinese named Yong Yong Fan, resulted in a verdict of suicide during temporary insanity. In the second, on the body of an Indian named Drahaman, who had inadvertently swallowed poison, a verdict of death from misadventure was returned. The third, on the body of a Chinese girl named Kian Mah Kee, aged seven years, who was knocked down and killed by a Municipal lorry, resulted in a verdict of accidental death primarily due to negligence on the part of the lorry driver. The lorry driver was subsequently charged under Section 304A of the Sarawak Penal Code, found guilty and fined $50.00. $200 compensation was awarded to the mother of the deceased.
A verdict of accidental death was recorded at the inquiry into the death of a Chinese named Lee Kee Jiok, who was knocked down and killed by the Constabulary ‘bus on 15th Novemlmr.
Mr. K. H. Digby reported for duty in the First Division on the 23rd November and loft shortly afterwards for the Simanggang Road, where he, is carrying out a census.
The Officer-in-Charge, Ban. reports that a case of robbery with violence took place at Pajiru on November 19th, when a Chinese bringing a large sum of money from Dutch territory to Sarawak was attacked by coolies of the Kuching Mine, and robbed of all that he had. The Polite are searching for three men who absconded from the mine on the night in question, and who were almost certainly responsible for the crime.
Three hundred and fifteen persons were treated at the Bau dispensary and hospital during November, and one hundred and sixly-seven N.A.B. injections were given. The Dresser-in-Charge, accompanied the Officer-in-Charge, Ban, to Singghi, and then on a four-day trip round the Jagoi locality; needless to say the Dresser's services were greatly appreciated in all the Kampongs visited. If this system of occasional visits by the Dresser to file Kampongs can be maintained, the incidence of yaws, so prevalent at present among the Land Dayaks, should be greatly reduced.
The Dahan Rubber Estates, Ltd., harvested 7,580 lbs. of dry rubber during November. The rainfall at Bau was 11.34 inches and at Dahan 17.4 inches.
The padi crops appear to be coming on well throughout the Upper Sarawak district. Sennah district, however, report that their padi is again being destroyed by insects; accordingly, a drum of antidote was sent up by the Agricultural Department and forwarded to that locality, in order to try to save the crops.
Painting and overhaul of all bridges on the Kuching-Bau Road were completed during the month. The roofing of the District Officer's bungalow was repaired, and the garage almost entirely reconstructed. The roads have suffered owing to the almost daily rainfall, but it has not yet been found necessary to restrict traffic.
The Officer-in-Charge Bau, accompanied by the Native Officer, walked over to Danau (left-hand branch) on November 18th to investigate a shooting accident. He returned by boat on the 20th, and owing to the flooded state of the river reached Balu Kitting in 3 1/2 hours, a remarkably fast time.
On the 22nd—23rd a visit was paid to Singghi, in order to settle two land disputes. The Singghi Dayaks are extraordinary adroit at re-opening old cases and then disagreeing about the former magis­ trate's decision.
On the 25lh the Officer-in-Charge visited the Tembawang group, stopping at Kampongs Grogro, Setengang, Plandok and Opar, returning to Bau on the 29th. At Setengang there was some trouble over two rival medicine men, who were each accused by their respective antagonists of killing their patients. Evidence was vague in the extreme, and both men were warned that if any further reports of such a character were heard, they would both be expelled from the Kampong.
One Exclusive Prospecting Licence, one Panning Licence and two General Prospecting Licences were issued in Upper Sarawak during November.
The total output of gold for October was 2,042 ozs. The following table shows the individual out­ put of gold from the various mines for the month of October:—
Two bundled and fifty-eight logs of kruin wood were shipped to Kuching from Lundu during November.
The District Officer, Sadong, reports that a Chinese named Lai Chin was sentenced to one year's imprisonment under section 428 of the Penal Code for wilfully destroying the roots of 500 pepper vines belonging to one Lai Siting Hin, of Serian. Apparently Lai Chin's wife preferred Lai Siong Hin's company to that of her husband, who took this means of giving vent to his jealousy.
One Chinese from the Ulu Sadong, and sixteen Samarahan Malays were prosecuted and fined, for tapping during the recent tapping holiday.
On November 30th a Sea Dayak named Sulow, of R. Sampa, Sebangkoi. Ulu Simunjan. com­ mitted suicide by shooting himself. The Dresser and corporal-in-charge immediately proceeded to the Ulu to investigate.
A reunion dinner of the members of the Sarawak Union Club was held on Saturday night the 21st December, 1935, St. Thomas’ Day. The Club premises were beautifully decorated for the occasion and 62 members and their friends were in attendance.
After proposing the least of His Highness the Rajah, Mr. Tan Sum Guan, who presided, said it was most regrettable that both the President, Bishop Hudson, and the Vice-President, Arch­ deacon Hollis, were unable to join them, the former being still away in Europe on furlough and the latter being unavoidably prevented from attending due to some important ecclesiastical work. He said that the Club was instituted in 1899 and is therefore 36 years old this year, and that like a human being the Club needs food to keep it going. This food must he provided for by the members by way of finance.
He pleaded for whole-hearted support of the members in this direction and hoped the Club would continue to prosper in the future.
The next speaker was Mr. Tan Soon Tye. who in his speech, referred to the praiseworthy manner in which the Management was conducted, together with the many privileges afforded by the Club, to which Mr. Tan Kui Choon, Honorary Secretary of the Club, suitably replied on behalf of the Committee.
Before the meeting dispersed, Mr. Tan Sum Guan presented the Cups and Medals to the following winners of the Tennis and Billiards Tournaments
held during the year: —
After the dinner, the members indulged in Billiards, Mahjong and a concert from the Club's wireless Receiver and Radiogram. The gathering was of a very cheerful and sociable character, and the function was a great success. —(Contributed).
On November 12th the Resident, Second Division, left lor Saribas and Kalaka in order to accompany His Highness the Rajab on his visit to those districts. He returned to Simanggang on November 16th.
Two Dayaks from Kantau, N.E.I., who were travelling without passes in the Undup, were each sentenced to two weeks' imprisonment at Simang­ gang.
Tuai Rumah Bunyau appealed against the decision given in the District Court, Simanggang, about a farming land dispute. The Resident's Court upheld the decision of the Lower Court, but Bunyan now wishes to appeal to the Supreme Court. 175 out-patients were treated at Simanggang Government Dispensary during the month, and 95 N.A.B. injections were performed.
On the 16th of the month the Dresser proceeded to Lingga to treat some cases of glandular fever which was suspected to lie diphtheria. lie returned on the l9th.
The Acting District Officer, Simanggang. states that on November 29th Andoh, a Dayak of Lachan, Ulu Lingga, reported that several days before, while alone, on the Klingkang near the N.E.T. border about three miles from his house, two Dutch Dcmangs and three Dayaks arrived from the direction of Ketungau, N.E.L. and seized his gun. The Resident has taken this matter up with the Dutch authorities. 133 out-patients were treated at Betong Dispensary during November; 35 N.A.B. injections were administered.
The general health of the district was good.
A reunion dinner of the members of the Sarawak Union Club was held on Saturday night the 21st December, 1935, St. Thomas’ Day. The Club premises were beautifully decorated for the occasion and 62 members and their friends were in attendance.
After proposing the toast of His Highness the Rajah, Mr. Tan Sum Guan, who presided, said it was most regrettable that both the President, Bishop Hudson, and the Vice-President, Arch­ deacon Hollis, were unable to join them, the former being still away in Europe on furlough and the latter being unavoidably prevented from attending due to some important ecclesiastical work. He said that the Club was instituted in 1899 and is therefore 36 years old this year, and that like a human being the Club needs food to keep it going. This food must be provided for by the members by way of finance.
He pleaded for whole-hearted support of the members in this direction and hoped the Club would continue to prosper in the future.
The next speaker was Mr. Tan Soon Tye, who in his speech, referred to the praiseworthy manner in which the Management was conducted, together with the many privileges afforded by the Club, to which Mr. Tan Kui Choon. Honorary Secretary of the Club, suitably replied on behalf of the Committee.
Before the meeting dispersed, Mr. Tan Sum Guan presented the Cups and Medals to the following winners of the Tennis and Billiards Tournaments held during the year: —
After the dinner, the members indulged in Billiards, Mahjong and a concert from the Club's wireless Receiver and Radiogram. The gathering was of a very cheerful and sociable character, and the function was a great success. —(Contributed).
On November 12th the Resident, Second Division, left lor Saribas and Kalaka in order to accompany His Highness the Rajab on his visit to those districts. He returned to Simanggang on November 16th.
Two Dayaks from Kantau, N.E.I., who were travelling without passes in the Undup, were each sentenced to two weeks' imprisonment at Simanggang.
Tuai Rumah Bunyau appealed against the decision given in the District Court, Simanggang, about a farming land dispute. The Resident's Court upheld the decision of the Lower Court, but Bunyan now wishes to appeal to the Supreme Court. 175 out-patients were treated at Simanggang Government Dispensary during the month, and 95 N.A.B. injections were performed.
On the 16th of the month the Dresser proceeded to Lingga to treat some cases of glandular fever which was suspected to lie diphtheria. lie returned on the l9th.
The Acting District Officer, Simanggang. states that on November 29th Andoh, a Dayak of Lachan, Ulu Lingga, reported that several days before, while alone, on the Klingkang near the N.E.T. border about three miles from his house, two Dutch Dcmangs and three Dayaks arrived from the direction of Ketungau, N.E.L. and seized his gun. The Resident has taken this matter up with the Dutch authorities. 133 out-patients were treated at Betong Dis­ pensary during November; 35 N.A.B. injections were administered.
The general health of the district was good.
The District Officer, Saribas, reports that a considerable crowd of Dayaks visited Belong during November in order to welcome His Highness the Rajah.
In spite of the tapping holiday and a poor harvest, natives in the Saribas district appear con­ tented and comparatively prosperous. Applications to move from Ulu Spak and Layar, however, have been numerous.
On November 28th Abang Draup. Native Officer, travelled up the Layar to investigate reports of food shortage, and to offer Government assistance in cases of genuine distress.
His Highness the Rajah arrived at Betong on the afternoon of November l2th. His Highness was accompanied by Mr. P. M. Adams, Resident, Second Division, Mr. R. L. Daubeny, and Mr.
D. C. White. Acting District Officer. Kalaka.
After making an official landing His Highness attended a Dayak football match. In the evening His Highness received Penghulus and leading Tuai Rumah at the District Officer’s house.
On the following morning His Highness the Rajah went to the Fort, where he was received by a guard of honour and representatives from the Malay. Dayak and Chinese communities, the roads being lined with children from the various schools.
After granting numerous interviews, His Highness left the Fort and called at a Malay school. His Highness then visited the Chinese school, where refreshments were provided; a speech of welcome was made by the Kapitan China, and the Head­ master then proposed His Highness' health, which was drunk by all present.
In the afternoon His Highness the Rajah paid a visit to the S.P.G. Mission His Highness the Rajah and party then left Betong in M.L. Rentis.
In honour of His Highness the Rajah's visit, to Betong. a Saribas Dayak football competition was held, eight teams entering for the cup presented by Chop Seng Lee. Play during the earlier rounds was energetic and most interesting to watch.
The match particularly deserves mention, when Stambak Hi. who had drawn with Bangat on three successive days, finally won by the odd goal, the score being 1—0. From start to finish the match was most evenly contested, and in the opinion of the local experts, although Stambak deserved to win, Bangat were unlucky to lose.
It is to be regretted, however, that after the match Bangat lodged an objection. It appeared to the Committee that Stambak Ili's conduct was objectionable, but the objection was overruled on a technical point.
The District Officer, Kalaka, reports that the prospects of a satisfactory padi crop in his district are good. Swamp padi in particular appears to be doing well.
No breaches of the tapping holiday were reported in the Kalaka district.
The District Officer left on the 18th for Roban via Engkabang to investigate reports made to His Highness the Rajah that a number of Dayaks were starving. He visited the Seblak, Mudong, Ibus and Roban, and reports that although the Dayaks are certainly on short commons, the majority appear quite capable of providing for themselves and their families. About fifty or sixty doors con­ sisting mainly of widows, orphans and cripples appear to lie in genuine distress, and sago will be distributed to them.
His Highness the Rajah, accompanied by Mr. P. M. Adams and Mr. R. L. Daubeny, arrived at Kabong on the morning of November 14th. His Highness went ashore at 9 a.m. and listened to requests in the fort followed by an address delivered by Malay schoolboys.
H.H.M.Y. Maimuna left for Saratok in the afternoon arriving at 5 p.m., but the official landing was delayed until the following morning. His Highness the Rajah on landing proceeded to the fort, the road to which was lined with Malay, Chinese and Mission schoolboys, and then sat in Court granting interviews and hearing requests.
His Highness also visited both Chinese and Malay schools, where addresses of welcome were read, and after a stroll through the bazaar returned on board H.H.M.Y. Maimuna, which sailed at 1.30 p.m.
The District Officer, Lubok Antu, reports that in most cases padi crops in his district show an improvement on last year, the crops in the Ulu being particularly excellent. The Telaus people, however, who only finished planting at the beginning of November, are obviously in for another famine in 1936.
Towards the end of November Abang Abu Talip, Native Officer, was sent up river with instructions to bring down Penghulus and Tuai Tuai to Lubok Antu for an aum on various mints. This he did, returning ou November 30th.
The Native Officer, Engkilili, reports that a Dayak named Badin, of rumah Enchirong, Stengin. Lemanak, whose wife was taken by a crocodile while fishing some months ago, brought in a crocodile measuring 6 feet 11 inches. This beast is alleged to have been the one that killed his wife.
With the exception of a few minor cases of illicit tapping, the tapping holiday appears to have been loyally observed throughout the Engkilili district.
On November 17th m.l. Sin Kim Suah was holed by a submerged stump near Emplam while on her way to Engkilili. and nearly sank. Fortunately, however, her crew succeeded in stopping the leak, and the launch arrived at Engkilili late the same evening.
When returning from Kuching to Simanggang with the Resident. Second Division, M.L. Rentis was wrecked on a sandbank below Stumbin in the Batang Lupar. The accident occurred at about 9.30 p.m. on December 3rd.
The subsequent inquiry revealed that the wreck was chiefly due to a miscalculation of the tides, which are notoriously tricky in the Batang Lupar.
There was a bright moon, and although the river is about three-quarters of a mile wide at the point where the accident took place, both banks were clearly visible. Soundings were being taken at the time and showed that the. water was becoming increasingly shallow: growing alarmed, the Juragan rang the engine-room telegraph to “slow,” and prepared to let go the anchor. He then put the helm hard over in order to go about, but it was too late, —the launch struck a sandbank broadside on and heeled right over. The Resident, who was down below in the cabin, had the greatest difficulty in climbing out mid getting onto the up­ turned side of the boat. which was the only refuge available. There were a number of women and children on board who were placed in the ship's dinghy, and who, accompanied by one man, safely reached the shore some way upstream. Fortunately, a boat, appeared on the scene with a village constable, who was on his way from Lingga to Simanggang, and the remainder of the crow and passengers were taken off; just how opportune was the arrival of this boat will be seen when it is realised that a current estimated at twelve knots was running, and the water was rapidly rising.
The Resident arrived at Simanggang about 11.15 p.m. and accompanied by the District Officer, immediately returned to the scene of the wreck with two Chinese launches, the Chin and the. Yong Huat Heng; by this time the Rentis had been swept about a mile upstream by the extremely strong current, which rolled her over and over, smashing all the skylights, awnings, bridge, and decking, and which eventually carried her onto a sand-spit opposite Kuala Gran about, fifty yards from the shore at high-tide.
Ropes were passed around the wreck, and when the tide made an effort was made to beach her closer to the bank, but little could be done owing to the continual breaking of ropes. It was not found possible to manoeuvre the Chinese launches into a position from which they could tow, but they stood by and assisted by lending gear.
Capt. A. W. G. Gibson, Surveyor of Ships, left Kuching in M.L. Betty shortly after receiving news of the accident and arrived on the scene of the wreck at mid-day on December 5th; salvage operations were commenced as soon as the tide receded. The hull, which unfortunately had again turned turtle, was re-floated at 11.0 p.m., and a start was made to tow it to Simanggang. At Sembauh. however, the ebb tide became so strong that no further headway could be made, and M.L. Betty anchored at 2.30 a.m. on December 6th.
After half-an-hour both anchor chains parted; the spire anchor was let go, and the engine was run at full speed ahead in order to prevent the Betty and her tow drifting downstream. Eleven hours later the Betty was able to proceed upstream with the flood, and Simanggang was safely reached the same afternoon.
The hull of the Rentis was put into Sungei Simanggang on arrival, and during the next few days she was patched up by a party working day and night: it was essential to complete the repairs in as short a time as possible, since owing to the bore, Sungei Simanggang would only have been safe for a few days.
M.L. Betty left Simanggang with the hull of the Rentis in tow and reached Kuching on December 10th. The hull of the Rentis is now in Brooke Dock undergoing repairs which are estimated to take about three months.
Thirty-five civil and thirty-seven criminal cases came before the Sibu Courts during November.
Owing to an epidemic of mumps, the Govern­ ment Malay School and Chinese schools were closed during the month. In the circumstances it was not possible to hold the annual examinations in the Malay school, and these will have to wait until after the Bulan Puasa holidays.
The construction of the new Sibu floating wharf was completed during the month. Owing to high floods, however, work on the groynes near the waterworks was delayed.
Work on the concrete columns of the new police barracks. Karnpong Pulau Road, was completed during the month, and earth filling on the site is now in progress. About fifteen tons of belian timber for these barracks is still in Bintulu awaiting shipment.
In accordance with the Local Order that, comes into force on 1st January. 1936. wheels of Govern­ ment hand-carts were changed for car wheels with pneumatic tyres. The cost of this works out at about $143 for each cart. This seems expensive, but should be amply justified by saving of road surfaces.
The Clerk of Works visited Binatang to effect repairs to the Customs godown and to fix iron ladders to the wharf; he went on to Sarikei to remove the wharf sluice to a new position, and then to Daro to make drawings of the Court house and quarters.
The Lee Hua Sawmill received an offer from the United Timbers (Bintulu) for timber of Merunli er Geronggong types. An average width of 8 1/2 was asked for, which is considerably lower than the previous averages. This offer is under consideration.
Three Tuai Rumah from Pala Wong, Tama Samunau, Gonnori, and Lanyong visited Sibu during the month in connection with the Bah-Sama Protected Forest. Tama Samunau asked for an excision of damun from the protected area on the true left bank of the Sungei Bah. The request was referred to the Resident, who refused it on the grounds that there was sufficient land available on the true right bank of this stream. These three houses will have the right to work rattan and wild sago and collect fruit, in addition to the usual rights available to natives in protected areas of this nature.
The Resident approved the final constitution of both the Bah-Sama and Menyong Protected Forests.
During the month sample jelutong plots 6 (Daro Forest Reserve) and 12 (Bukit Lan Experimental Plantation) were both measured. Sample plot No. 12 showed encouraging increases in both girth and height.
One hundred and forty patients underwent treatment in Sibu Hospital during November. This number included ninety-nine cases admitted during the month. Discharges were ninety, and one patient was transferred to Kuching; at the end of the month there were forty-three patients in the hospital.
Out-patients numbered five hundred and twelve, two hundred and twenty-seven of these being new cases.
Thirty-four N.A.B. injections were given.
Owing to the diphtheria epidemic in Kuching, all passengers from this port were, medically examined on arrival. Propaganda concerning diphtheria in the form of circulars in English, Malay and Chinese, was circulated and displayed in the bazaar.
All European officers, their families, and certain members of the Junior Service were innoculated with antitoxin.
The Divisional Medical Officer, in connection with the diphtheria epidemic, paid four visits to Sarikei and one to Kanowit. Since 28th November no new cases have occurred. At the time of writing only three cases remain at the isolation camp.
During the month Native Officer Abang Indih toured the Pasai district, collecting gun and head tax.
On November 1st the property of Messrs. John Reid & Co. at Kanowit was sold by public auction.
Almost the entire mill outfit was bought by Messrs.
The Borneo Company, Ltd., who are now pro­ posing to operate this sawmill. Messrs. Skinner and Cameron, formerly employed by Messrs. John Reid & Co., are now in the employ of Messrs. The Borneo Company, Ltd. The mill is waiting for a set of new saws before commencing operations.
On Armistice Day at Sibu the Two Minutes'
Silence at 11 a.m. was marked by guns fired from the battery. All Europeans and representatives of the various communities were present at the flag­ staff during the Silence. A guard was furnished by the Constabulary under the command of Inspector Mohd. Yan.
Mr. R. G. Aikman and Mr. C. S. Sergei arrived at Sibu on the 1st in connection with the rubber census. After visiting upriver stations, they pro­ ceeded to Matu and Daro. A considerable number of the census forms were found to be incorrectly or carelessly filled in. and special arrangements were made to have these checked and corrected. A number of Dayaks from Pasai district were found to have planted rubber in contravention to the Rubber Restriction Order. Action is being taken against them through the Courts, and the rubber is being destroyed.
Information was received from Kapit that the great pig migration had ceased; later in the month, however, it recommenced, and numbers of Dayaks applied for permission to proceed up river.
Six bead of buffalo arrived from Kuching on their way to Kanowit. These have been bought by Kanowit Dayaks for agricultural purposes.
The District Officer, Sibu, mentions that it may be of interest to record a newly-coined Dayak word Rejap, which means a 'levy.' This is alleged to have originated from the word 'reserve.' which was used before the word ‘levy’ was instituted. This word is now in common use both in Sibu and Kanowit districts
On November 23rd an inquest was held at Binatang on the body of a drowned Chinese girl, a verdict of accidental death being returned. On the 28th an inquiry was held into the death of a small Chinese child suspected of having been poisoned; the body was sent to Sibu for post-mortem examination, when it was found that death had been caused by a fracture of the skull. A verdict of death by misadventure resulted.
There was little crime in the Lower Rejang district during November. A smuggling case was heard at Binatang, when a fine of $2,400 was imposed by the Resident, and matches to the value of $810 confiscated.
There was a slight outbreak of diphtheria in Sarikei during the month, four cases being dis­ covered. The patients were isolated from the 8th to the 23rd, and there was no further outbreak.
The cinema and schools in the bazaar area were closed from the 9th to the 27th, and no hawking was allowed during the same period. The Divisional Medical Officer arrived at the district four times during the month.
In the course of the month all Dayaks in the whole of the Sarikei district were visited. All was found well, and there no complaints; the padi crop promises to be better than last year.
The District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports that the tapping holiday was successfully carried through in his district and there were no eases of illicit tapping. Pepper was still at a very low price, and several of the larger towkays are storing up stocks in the hope of better times.
The following figures show the export returns for Sarikei: —
Repairs to Jakar Road from the 2nd mile towards the 3rd mile were earned out by prisoners, who finished about 600 fathoms. The contract for repairing three miles of the Jakar Road was almost completed, with the exception of gravelling. A con­ tract for the supply of 100 cubic yards of earth for filling the back lane behind new shophouses in Repok Road was completed, and gravelling was also carried out. A new contract for the reconstruction of the Boban Road was made during November, and work is in progress.
Mr. F. L. G. Crossley took over the Lower Rejang district on November 29lh from Mr. A.
Macpherson, who left for Sibu on transfer on the 30th.
Mr. E. M. Selous, Acting Secretary for Chinese Affairs, arrived from Sibu on the 19th. proceeded to Selalang on the 20th, and returned to Kuching direct from Rejang on the 21st. The Divisional Forest Officer visited Daro on the 25th and 26th for the purpose of inspecting Tanjong Belatok Reserve.
The District Officer. Kapit, reports that the Punan Bah brought down some of their logs to Kapit during November, but it is understood that they still have over 200 logs ready cut in the Ulu Bah, but not yet floated into the main stream. A great deal more block rattan was also brought down by them.
A large quantity of rattan came down during the month. and the Chinese shopkeepers are buying up belian posts and planks from Dayaks to repair their shophouses both at Kapit and Song after the recent floods.
Awang Badar and Kee Boon, two traders from Beluga, brought down to Kapit over 150 piculs of damar, and about 10 piculs of rubber. They are still in Kapit, being unable to return owing to high water.
Native Officer Abang Aboi left for Kaki Wong on November 1st by outboard, returning the same day.
He ordered back hundreds of downriver Dayaks who had overstayed their time limit in this district.
The Agricnit oral Inspector at Kapit on November 28th, and left    on 80th. He reported favourably on ho  per and tobacco crops, but it appears that the Chinese are planting the wrong type of coffee.
The Officer-in-Charge, Oya and Dalat. reports that two more cases of buying rubber without a licence resulted in fines of $40 and $20. In the Kut and Bungan areas this offence is becoming in­ creasingly common.
The increase in the number of Sibu Foocbows buying rubber without licences in the Igan is caus­ ing some trouble. In all cases dealt with so far rewards have been given to informers, and T.K.
Tawan of Kut is by way of being the most capable Tua Kampong of the district, so it is hoped to put down these offences.
Seruni, the widow of the late T.K. Alek of Dalat, died on November 4th. She was the best known Liko woman on the river, and lived to a great age.
The last few months of her life were chiefly occupied with payun ceremonies as a means of rejuvenation; the river has lost a real character.
I'engliulu Untol was down from the Ulu Ova during the month, and reported that so far as he knew the tapping holiday had been faithfully observed in his district. He accompanied the Officer-in-Charge to the Ulu.
Dayak padi and jagong in the Ulu Oya are doing well, but rats are causing considerable damage.
The price of raw sago was steady at 68 cents per passu in S. Kut at the end of the month. Dalat bazaar is active as a result of the consistent high price of sago.
Much engkabang was brought down during November, the average price being $2.50 a picul.
Many Dayaks sold their engkabang for considerably less up river, some as low as 50 cents a guni, but they only have themselves to blame for this.
The rubber tapping holiday, as far as could be ascertained, was faithfully observed, and almost all rubber stocks were cleared out of the district. Dur­ ing the holiday a village constable was on patrol in the Klid district, and another in the Kut; other parts of the district were also inspected. 124 koyans of raw sago and 120 piculs of engka- bang left the Oya district by sea during November.
Only moderately rough seas were experienced off Oya during November. A barong capsized when crossing the bar, but this is reported to have been due to the steersman’s fault. No lives were lost, but die day's cutch and most of the barang disappeared.
The Officer-in-Charge, Oya and Dalat, reports that during a visit to the Ulu a case of sangka ulun was settled, resulting in a fine of half a picul. The offence was committed during a begawai at Rumah Kedit. the injured party coming from Rumah Tugang and the offender from Rumah Unya.
Aparently there has been bad blood between these houses for some time, and according to reports it was only a miracle that a free fight did not develop.
There also occurred in this house a case of the comparatively rare offence of selabat. The com­ plainant had come overland with T.R. Tadong from Sg. Sangkabang Paku: the offender admitted stealing complainant's sirat, and exchanging mutual curses in the subsequent dispute; within a few days the complainant's son, age about eight years, died; accused was mulcted in the usual fine of 15 mungkols, one-third of which reverted to Government.
The District Officer, Mukah, reports that on October 8th a Melanau woman while returning by boat from the Mukah bazaar about 11 a.m. died suddenly at Laut Tutus, apparently of heart-failure.
A slight increase in the death rate has taken place at Mukah. this apparently being usual on the advent of the landas weather. 1.3 N.A.B. injections were given, and 97 persons were treated at the Government Dispensary during October.
Bunsu, who killed his father apparently accidentally and then attempted to commit suicide, is still living and appeared in Mukah. He cannot yet speak coherently, but is recovering rapidly.
Buckshot and pieces of splintered bone are still working out of his head and face, and his recovery is little short of miraculous. Further inquiries into the matter are still held up pending the time when he will be able to talk properly.
On October 5th crocodiles measuring respectively 15' 9" and 11' were brought up to Balingian kubu; in the stomach of the larger one were found the remains of the boy taken in Kuala Balingian on September 29th.
The residential lots behind the bazani at Mukah have now been surveyed. Allocations have been made by the Survey Department, and the price of compensation has been fixed on the houses in front of the bazaar. Work has already started on the demolition. The scheme has apparently been accepted by the bazaar people as a sound pro­ position.
On October 9th Mr. T. E. Parker, Settlement Officer, Land and Survey Department, arrived at Mukah in connection with land settlement, and returned to Sibu via Oya on the 13th by way of the beach, ML. Leonora proceeded to Oya with the barang and some of the Survey staff.
In connection with land settlement it is worthy of note that T. K. Eward of Sungei Tellian Ulu has cooperated with exceptional keenness and has been, and still is, of great help both to the Assis­ tant Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, and also to the Acting District Officer in probate matters. He has a very sound knowledge of the working and objects of land settlement, and already can read survey sheets.
All Dayaks are busy on their farms in the Mukah district, and there is little of interest to report from that quarter. Complaints about Penghulu Umpoh are many; he will not visit his people unless called, and in the casc of the Selangau Dayaks he has been called many times; in fact, it must be some years since he has visited this area. An adverse report was given on this Penghulu in 1934. and it is probable that he will have to be relieved of his authority in the new year.
A part from this, the Dayaks as a whole appear to be reasonably contented, although they are worried about their farms.
The unveiling of a tablet presented to the Epworth League Methodist Church, Sibu, by His Highness the Rajah, in memory of the late Rev. J. M.
Hoover, took place at 11.30 a.m. on December 4th.
A Guard of Honour, furnished by the Sibu detachment of the Sarawak Constabulary, and under the command of Mr. R. G. Talbot, took post opposite the left-hand side of the main door of the Church, where the tablet is situated. A large crowd, which included all the Sibu Europeans and representatives of the Chinese and Malay communities, was present to witness the ceremony, which was performed by Mr. C. D. Adams, Resident, Third Division.
On the arrival of the Resident, who was accompanied by the District Officer, the Guard sloped arms; the Resident then made a short speech in the course of which he said that there was no need for him to say very much about Tuan Hoover; those who knew him personally would keep his memory in their hearts, and those who followed him Would know him in his achievements,—surely man’s greatest monument. He then proceeded to unveil the tablet, which was covered by a Sarawak flag.
The Guard presented arms, and, after a short pause, sloped arms and marched off.
The tablet is made of bronze, seated on a concrete easting, and is inscribed as follows
THE REV. J. M. HOOVER ARRIVED AT SIBU
IN MARCH. 1008. AND WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR
SETTLING THE FIRST FOOCHOW COLONY IN THE
REJANG RIVER. IN 1904, HIS HIGHNESS SIR
CHARLES ANTHONY BROOKE, G.C.M.G., SECOND
RAJAH OF SARAWAK, OFFICIALLY APPOINTED HIM
THE HEAD OF ALL THE SARAWAK FOOCHOWS,
ENTRUSTED HIM WITH THE1B WELFARE, AND
MADE HIM THEIR OFFICIAL REPRESENTATIVE IN
ALL THEIR DEALINGS WITH GOVERNMENT. FROM
THEN UNTIL THE DAY OF HIS DEATH ON 11TH
FEBRUARY. 1035. MIt. HOOVER LOYALLY FUL­ FILLED THIS TRUST.
THIS TABLET IS ERECTED BY HIS
HIGHNESS STR CHARLES VYNER BROOKE,
G.C.M.G., THIRD RAJAH OF SARAWAK, AS
A MARK OF APPRECIATION OF HIS UNFAIL­
ING LOYALTY AND DEVOTED SERVICES
TO THE STATE. AND AS A TRIBUTE TO
THE MEMORY OF A PERSONAL FRIEND.
Attractive in its simplicity, the tablet stands as a lasting memorial to the life and work of one who was a true friend of Sarawak. —(Contributed.)
His Highness the Rajah, accompanied by Mr.
E. O. Bruce, Acting Resident, Fourth Division, and the District Officer, Miri, made a tour of the Miri bazaar on November 1st. His Highness left for Kuching by M.V. Marudu the following day.
Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division, arrived at Miri from furlough on November 13th, and look over the Division from Mr. Bruce on the 18th.
Mr. Bruce left ou November 22nd to go on fur­ lough accompanied by Mr. K. H. Digby, who was on transfer to the First Division.
There was no serious crime in the Miri district during the month.
Accompanied by Native Officer Tuanku Suror, the District Officer, Miri. left for Niah ou Novem­ ber 8th to settle an Iban dispute between Peng- hulus Manggoi and Barat regarding a case of Pemali. A satisfactory conclusion was reached and they returned to Miri on the 10th.
Padi reports from Sibuti district are satisfactory, despite constant inroads made by pig.
Mr. B. A. Trechman, Divisional Treasurer, returned from Kuching on November 5th, and resumed duty in Miri the following day. He was accompanied by Mrs. Trechman and Mrs.
Pitt-Hardacre.
The District Officer, Bintulu, reports that dining November work proceeded satisfactorily on the drainage system of the Bintulu Landing Ground.
On November 28th a report was received tlhat a Malay named Wan Lee had been taken by a cro­ codile while bathing oil rumah Leng, S. Jelalong.
Apparently Wan Lee was a Belagu Malay who bad walked overland from Belaga to visit relations living in this river.
The crocodile has not yet been caught.
Seven hundred and sixty-eight vaccinations and thirteen N.A.B. injections were administered in the Baram district during the month.
The District Officer, Baram. reports that Penghulu Abau Wan was told that as a result of his continual disregard of Penan trading regulations, His Highness the Rajah bad decided to cancel his appointment as from December 31st.
Several birds’-nests caves in the vicinity of Long Damn were rifled and stripped of nests. The culprits have not yet been apprehended.
Galan, Native Officer, and the Dresser-in-Charge, Baram, proceeded up river on the 22nd to vaccinate everyone living between Marudi and Long Laput.
The only districts now remaining to be done are the headwaters of Baram and the Bakong.
Owing to the bad harvest a number of headmen have asked for assistance in feeding their people, and rice has been issued to those in urgent need.
The want at the moment is not as acute as is anticipated in a month or so, just before the present crop ripens.
Rainfall was very heavy at Baram during the whole of November, and the river, as a result, has been in continual flood. Those persons who have not learnt their lesson from the floods of last year, and have again planted on the banks of the rivers, have been very perturbed to sec their fields flooded.
So far, the crop is not old enough and the floods of insufficient duration to have done much harm.
The majority of the young rice is of good quality but is already suffering from the ravages of rats and mice.
The work on the bazaar road at Baram has again been hampered by floods. The original layer put down by the contractor was entirely washed away, and he had to start afresh.
The old Baram Astana has been demolished at very small cost, and much of the timber was found to be in sufficiently good condition to be used again, Even the posts, although rotten near and below the ground, will be of use for parts of the new building.
Four telephone linesmen arrived at Baram from Kuching on the 12th to supervise and assist in the r-wiring of all lines in the station, including that to Bakong. Every post is also being replaced, and the new timber has been supplied from up river at a very reasonable cost. The linesmen have been hindered by high water, but have made good pro­ gress and have finished the station and half the Bakong line.
The plan for the new Chinese school at Baram has becn passed by the Secretary for Chinese Affairs, and the principals have given instructions for the collection of timber. They hope to start building early in the new year.
The Rev. Father Feltbrugge visited the Baram district from the 9th to the 25th. During his stay he visited Lubok Nibong, and walked from Long Lupan, the Uma Bawang house, across country to the Tru.
On the 15th Mr. L. O. Bruce, the Acting Resident, arrived at Baram with a party from M.Y.
Rosaura The party included Lord Moyne, Vis­ count Elveden. Lady Broughton and Miss Broughton, the Hon. A. F. C. H. Chaplin and Mrs.
Chaplin. Mr. Bruce remained in Marudi and the others were taken up to see the Kayan house at Long Laput, wherc they spent the night, returning to Miri the next day. The conveyances used were two high-powered speed-boats from the yacht.
Unfortunately, they travelled one immediately behind the other, and the double wash caused con­ siderable damage, completely sinking two boats, and demolishing many floating wharves. Com­ pensation has been applied for, and in the case of the boats sunk, has already been paid.
A meeting was held on the 21st between the shop-keepers of the Marudi and Lubok Nibong bazaars to investigate and discover the actual reasons for the petitions put before His Highness the Rajah. The former bazaar wishes the latter to be abolished, claiming that it is a "pirate" and diverting most of the trade to itself. The Resident of the meeting has been forwarded to the Resident for his consideration.
The health of the Limbang district has been good, and no epidemics occurred. All passengers arriving from Kuching were examined for diphtheria.
The District Officer, Limbang and Lawas, reports that Peughulu Wee and a number of Dayaks came down during the month, bringing rattans, padi and jungle produce for the market.
Penghulu Wee had just completed rounds of his district and a number of cases were settled.
Most of the up-river people at Limbang have finished their jagong crop, which seems unusually early, and padi looks promising everywhere.
The tapping holiday which finished on the 18th was again successful, and at Limbang no one was found tapping during the prescribed period.
The Panderuan road had to be closed to motor traffic most of the month owing to the amount of rain and the bad condition of the road.
Messrs. Aikman and Sergei. Rubber Census Officers, arrived at Lawas by H.H.M.Y. Maimuna complete with staff on November 23rd. They left Lawas on the 25th and after a short visit to Sundar arrived Trusan the same evening.
Mr. & Mrs. Southwell and Mr. Young of the Borneo Evangelical Mission sailed for Australia on leave during the month.
The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 15,680 lbs. of dry rubber during the month.
The Editor, The Sarawak Gazette, Kuching.
SIR,
I laving read with interest the article under the above heading, which appeared in your December issue, I beg to appreciate the writer for taking the privilege of expressing his opinion of the local Malay dance. Your correspondent’s opinion is, however, very similar to those of our former writers, whose articles appeared in this Gazette, and in the vernacular newspapers of Malaya some years ago. This means that Mohamed Nor-Hel is not the only man who would sacrifice himself in writing about the subject. There is also a Malay novel by name Melati Sarawak, edited and published by one of my best friends. The author’s aim is no other than that of other writers; he
calls the play Suara kulit kambing kring.
Besides describing about the beauty and modesty of the performance, Mohamed Nor-Hel at the same time makes a criticism over the doers. It is a nuisance to the Kampong dwellers, he said, because people cannot get enough sleep at night. There­ fore he advises the headmen of the Kampongs and the well-to-do people to restrict the. time of the main. He points out to his readers that the objectors of the gendang tanda arc the “Ulama," "Kadi," and "Lebai."
Now, Sir. it is my turn to express my opinion, Gendang tanda is undeniably an entertainment.
It is a Folk dance in which its national characteristics are strongly discernable; and the only [jerformance that the local bujangs every time expect to enjoy.
In accordance with bis enthusiastic Malay article, which appeared on page 226, in the same issue of the Gazette, Mohamed Nor-Hei means that gendang tanda an evil performance, that is, it leads young folks to immoral behaviour. Do you think so, my readers?
Finally, Sir. the only way to moralise the young folks is to give the girls proper education, by establishing vernacular schools in the villages. The problem of the expenditure for the establishments is in my readers' own knowledge.
Yours faithfully,
MOHAMMED JOE.
