THE Sarawak Gazette PRICE KUCHING, Friday, May 1st, 1936. 20 CENTS. The Sarawak Gazette FRIDAY. MAY 1st, 1936. Local and Personal. APRIL. His Highness the Rajah returned to Kuching from his visit to Baram and Miri on April 11th, accompanied by Dayang Valerie and Mrs. C. D. Adams. Mrs. Adams returned to Sibu by m.v. Rejang on the 13th. His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne are due to arrive in Singapore on May 10th, having travelled out from home by the Rampura the vessel that is conveying back to China, the art treasures recently exhibited on loan at Burlington House. Their Highnesses embarked at Marseilles, and so were not on hoard the ship when she went aground at Gibraltar. On March 4th Mr. H. B. Crocker, Acting Government Secretary, left Sarawak in order to proceed to Europe on three months’ sick leave. With him were Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Daubeny, who are now on furlough. Mr. W. F. Dick, Resident, First Division, has taken Mr. Crocker’s place as Acting Government Secretary, and Mr. Pollard is acting temporarily as Resident, First Divi¬ sion. Kuching was almost empty of Europeans over Easter, the cricket team that visited Miri and holiday parties at Santubong and Sibu' Laut making a large hole in the European community. H.R.H. Prince Purachatra of Siam arrived in Kuching on April 10th in connection with the establishment and organisation of the Kuching Rotary Club. An account of the Prince’s visit appears in another column. Mr. E. Parnell, Treasurer of Sarawak, left on furlough by the Vyner Brooke on April 27th. having been preceded by Mrs. Parnell, who sailed a fortnight earlier. Mr. H. M. Calvert is acting as Treasurer during Mr. Parnell's absence. Mr. L. D. Kennedy has been appointed Acting Com¬ missioner of Trade and Customs. H.I.J.M.S. Yunbari. with Rear-Admiral B. Hosogaya, who is paying a visit to Kuching, is due to arrive at Pending on May 4th. “Jane's Fighting Ships" states that the Yunbari is a second-class cruiser of 2,890 tons with a complement of 328. We record with deep regret the death of Tuanku Haji Ali bin Tuanku Hussein, which look place at Sibu on April 13th. Tuanku Haji Ali was a Malay gentleman of great distinction and charm, and counted many close friends among Europeans in Sarawak; he was also greatly liked and respected by the Malay community, with whom he had con¬ siderable influence. His eyesight failed some time ago. and for several months before his death he was completely blind Tuanku Haji Ali leaves a widow and three sons, two of whom are in the Native Officers’ Service. An obituary notice appears else¬ where in this issue. During the month Mr. G. F. J Pegler, Acting District Officer, Kuching, paid a short  visit to Sambas. N.E.I., in order to discuss with the Gezaghebber of that station certain problems regarding the Lundu N.E.I. border. Mr. Pegler, who was accompanied by Mr. R. G. Aikman,returned to Kuching on April 24th. An R.A.F. Flying-boat from Seletar. with Squadron Leader Lloyd. Flight Lieutenant R. A. A. Cole and Flying Officer H. J. Hobbs, was due to arrive at Kuching on the morning of April 15th on a tour of inspection of flying-boat moorings at Pending, Sibu. Bin- tulu and Miri. The flying-boat, ran into a violent storm, however, when approaching the Sarawak coast, and was forced to land at Pulo Sempadi. where rough seas damaged her tail plane. She was unable to proceed on her flight, and spent the night at Sempadi; the following morning, the sea being reasonably calm, she taxied to Pending, being piloted through the Santubong entrance by m.l. Betty, which had been sent to Sempadi the previous evening for this purpose. A spare tail-plane arrived from Singapore by the Darrel on April 20th. and was fitted shortly afterwards. During the night, how¬ ever, the trunk of a nipah. palm, which had become dislodged from the river bank, tore the lower main plane, and the departure of the flying-boat was again delayed. She eventually left for Sibu on the 24th, and returned to Kuching on May 1st after com¬ pleting her tour; Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division, took passage by her from Miri in order to attend the Spring Race Meeting. The flying-boat left for Singapore on May 4th. We hear that H.M.S. Herald is expected to call al Pending early in May on her way to the Rejang, where she will continue the hydrographic survey of the river. The survey parties will camp near Sarikei. Owing to unforeseen circumstances the publication of the Gazette has been delayed this month. We apologize to our readers, and ask their indulgence for the late appearance of this issue. SARAWAK. Rubber Regulation during 1935. REPORT BY THE CHAIRMAN, RUBBER RESTRICTION COMMITTEE. 1. Under the International Agreement to Regulate Production and Export of Rubber, Sarawak was allotted a basic quota of 28,000 tons for the year 1935. By decision of the International Rubber Regulation Committee the following Permissible Exportable Amounts were allowed : — The unused balance carried over from 1931 amounted to 1,391 tons, thereby giving a total available for export during the year of 20,291 tons. Exports during the year, excluding 180 Ions under Customs control on 31st December, 1934. amounted to 19,285 tons (dry equivalent), leaving an unused balance of 1,006 tons to be carried forward to the succeeding year. Exports of rubber from the State were dis¬ tributed as follows :— Rubber produced in the Second Division is exported from the First Division. All rubber exported from the State was accompanied by certificate of origin, duly authenticated, in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. 2. Legislation.—Order No. R—3 (Rubber Restriction) 1931 was amended by the enactment of Order No. R—3B (Rubber Restriction Amendment) 1935, dated 5th January, 1935, Order No. R—3c (Rubber Restriction Amendment) 1935. dated 29th August. 1935. and Order No. R—3D (Rubber Restriction Amendment) 1935, dated 5th December. 1935. The object of the first amendment was to facilitate control of stocks of rubber held by Dealers and Exporters licensed under Order No R—4 (Rubber Dealers and Exporters) 1934. The second amendment was promulgated with the object of tightening the control regarding the replacement of rubber trees. A provision regarding the eradication of seedlings was included, but since this measure gave rise to much dissatisfaction and complaint of being impracticable and unenforceable it was repealed by the third amendment. In addition, the rules regard¬ ing tapping methods. Notification No. 767 of 1931, were repealed by Notification No. 1127 of 19th September, 1935, since it was found impossible to enforce them in the majority of outlying districts. 3. The Rubber Restriction Committee, consist¬ ing of the following ex officio members, continued throughout the year to deal with matters pertaining to Rubber Restriction : The Commissioner of Trade and Customs (Chairman). The Resident, First Division. The Secretary for Chinese Affairs. The Senior Agricultural Officer. Nine meetings of the Committee were held during the year. 4. The strict control and limitation of immigra¬ tion referred to in the previous report was continued during the year and doubtless continued to be a main feature in restricting production of rubber, though it must operate to the disadvantage of other industries. Before the year had far advanced, however, it became apparent that it would prove inadequate as a means of keeping exports of rubber within the limits imposed by the Agreement and that recourse would have to he had to one or more lapping holidays. During the year two tapping holidays were declared as follows (i) from 8th to 28th July, inclusive. (ii) from 27th October to 18th November, inclusive. Staff's of various Departments, such as Land and Survey. Forest, Agriculture and Constabulary assisted as far as possible with patrol work during the holidays. Reports indicate that on the whole the holidays were faithfully observed throughout the State, and monthly statistics of exports and stocks tend to confirm this, though the first holiday was perhaps the more convincing. Dissatisfaction was voiced in various quarters by certain sections of the community concerned in the rubber industry ; it is dear that the system is not ideal and introduces abnormal difficulties, and holidays may not continue to lie so successful. Each holiday was preceded by propaganda as intensive as circumstances permitted, and it is probably true to say that the majority of Native and oilier Asiatic small-holders, of which a large proportion of the rubber producers of the State consists, appreciate and accept the position. There can be no doubt that the production of rubber generally is increasing, and that more native holdings have been brought into tapping, probably due partly to the natural incentive of higher prices, and to labour leaving other industries, chiefly pepper, which are less remunerative than rubber at the present level of commodity values. 5. It was decided to carry out a census of rubber planted throughout the State, and a start was made early in June but the work was not completed before the end of the year. An Officer of the Administra¬ tive Service and an Officer of the Land and Survey Department were seconded for this work and a temporary subordinate staff was engaged. Mr. C. E. J. Pascoe. formerly of the Land Department, was appointed Superintendent of Rubber Restriction in August. 6. The purchase and sale of rubber are controlled by Order No. R—4 (Rubber Dealers and Exporters) 1934, under which deniers and exporters are licensed to deal in and export rubber. The maximum amount of rubber which the holder of a licence may have in stock at any one time is prescribed on the licence. On 31st December, 1935, there were 1415 licensed dealers and licensed exporters distributed throughout the State as follows : 7. Considering the circumstances under which rubber is grown widespread throughout the State and the inherent difficulties nf effecting an adequate measure of immediate supervision, the number of prosecutions it was found necessary to institute was comparatively small. 8. A provisional programme of four tapping holidays for the year 1936 was arranged. C. D. LE GROS CLARK . Chairman, Rubber Restriction Committee. Rotary in Kuching. H.K.H. Prince Purachatra, Governor of the 80th District R.I.. arrived in Kuching on 13th April, and left on the I8th. During his short visit he was kept very busy with functions, visits, sight¬ seeing, etc. On the first night of his arrival he was the guest of Messrs. Wong Shuk Chee and Khan Ah Chong at a Dinner at the Government Rest House where he was staying. On the second day he checked up work of the organization of the Rotary Club carried out by Mr. Khan Ah Chong, and at night he presided over the Inaugural Meeting. On the third day the Prince was enter¬ tained at dinner by Capt. C. D. Le Gros Clark, after he had been up to Ban in the morning visiting some gold mines and seeing their method of working. The Prince was accompanied by Dr. Wong Cheong Way. who gave him some gold as a souvenir of the occasion. Mr. Ong Seng Chai entertained the party to a big tiffin at his house at Siniawan. On the following day at noon Prince Purachatra together with Mr. Khan Ah Chong called on His Highness the Rajah of Sarawak and thanked him for his patronage in becoming an Honorary Member of the Kuching Rotary Club In the afternoon Mr. Ong Tiang Swee, regarded as the G.O.M. of Kuching, gave a tea party to about 40 Chinese friends. Mr. Khun Ah Chong spoke welcoming the Prince on behalf of Mr. Ong Tiang Swee. The Prince expounded the theories of Rotary which were duly interpreted into Chinese to the audience, and which made a deep impression on those present, who dispersed afterwards very much wiser regarding ideals of Rotary. At night the Prince paid a visit to the Sylvia Cinema, and was pleased with the nice building. Friday was devoted to sight-seeing, and the jelutong and sago factories of Ong Ewe Hai were visited. The factories of the same nature belonging to Mr. Ong Tiang Swee were also seen prior to this. The Prince is very interrated in orchids, and he was taken to a house of a Chinese where he saw and wsn very interested in a few very rare specimens. In the evening the Museum and the Malay Kam- pongs came under the Prince’s itinerary. The Dayak village at the 21st Mile, Kampong Segu, was not forgotten. Wherever he went his camera and eine-Koilak came in useful, and he took quite a number of photos which should prove valuable as a reminiscence of his visit. On the night previous to his departure the Prince was the guest at a fare¬ well party by Messrs. E. Parnell and L. N. Reynolds. On the morning of the 18th the Prince was seen off by practically every Rotarian, includ¬ ing the President. Mr. H. M. Calvert. Red Letter Day for Sarawak Rotary. April 14th was a red letter day to Sarawak because she joined the great world-wide family of Rotary on that day. At night time the Inaugural Meeting was held at the Government Rest House with a Dinner attended by a Charter Membership of 26, consisting of officials and business and professional men of the town and representing several different nationalities and racial groups. The gathering, indeed, exemplified the unique character of Rotary. The Charter members with their classifications are as follows ;—  H.R.H. Prince Purachatra, Governor of 80th District R.T., was in the chair and after dinner was over. Mr. Khan Ah Chong opened the business side of the meeting with the passing of the Club constitution and by-laws. He stated that the constitution and by-laws could not he printed off yet, as there were some points that had to be decided and some other information to be obtained, but he assured the members that a copy would be sent to every one as soon as they were ready. The election of Office Bearers resulted as follows :— Under the heading of election of Honorary Members Mr. Khan All Chong stated that he had great pleasure in announcing that H.H. The Rajah of Sarawak would be very pleased to accept the honour of Honorary Membership. He eulogized the Rajah’s fine qualities as the sovereign bead and stated that the peace and harmony in which the people of different nationalities were living bore great testimony to bis wise and able administration, and it would be a great honour to have him amongst the Rotarians. The Rajah was then unanimously elected Honorary Member amid great applause. Mr. Khan Ah Chong further said :— There is another man who deserves the distinction of an Honorary Membership and that is, the ‘Grand Old Man’ of Kuching, Mr. Ong Tiang Swee. He has consented to accept that honour. Mr. Ong Tiang Swee is a man of about 70 years of age. He was born and bred in Kuching, and has done a lot of public work for the State and in recognition of his loyalty and philanthropy he has been honoured by tlie Rajah with a C.S.S. (Companion of the Star of Sarawak) and so far he is the only man in Kuching who has received such an honour. He was the first Chinese Magistrate for the Chinese Court, which has since been abolished, and was also the first President of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce. As a matter of fact he plays a purl in all things Chinese and often acts as a mediator between the Government and his community, it is certainly to such a man that we should bestow an honour such as Honorary Membership.” The election was received with much enthusiasm and Mr. Ong Tiang Swee was duly elected an Honorary Member. After the above business Mr. Khan Ah Chong addressed the Meeting. He said "To-day is a red letter day for Sarawak, It is put on the Rotary- map through the birth of its Rotary baby. The baby is born under the best auspices, burn with a silver spoon in its mouth, and born from the best parentage in having as its father the Treasurer of the Slate, Mr. II. M. Calvert, and its mother, the Gold King. Dr. Wong Cheong Way, both of whom. I am sure, will nurse it to be a healthy and lusty son who will play a great part in and uplift the tradition of Rotary. We must congratulate ourselves for having secured the services of two such excellent gentlemen. You cannot find two more likeable and two more popular men in the whole of Kuching. They are pre-eminently suited to perform the functions of leaders in the newly-formed Rotary Club by virtue of their broad sympathies, geniality, and graciousness. Mr. Calvert is very popular among the Europeans and other communities in Kuching while Dr. Wong Cheong Way is the most respected, amiable and beloved of men in his own community. He is strongly entrenched in the affection of his own people. In spite of the able guidance of the President and Vice-President , I must still appeal to all members of our Club to exert their goodwill, friendship, comradeship and co-operation to make Rotary a success that it desenes." (Applause). "Now I will introduce to you H.R.H. Prince Purachatra. who is the Governor of 80th District in Rotary International. It is very kind of him to have come all the distance from Singapore to set this Club going, and the fact that he has to stay here for about a week is certainly a great sacrifice of his time, but where sacrifice is concerned with Rotary, he is ever ready to give way to it. He is the keenest Rotarian I have ever come across, and as the District Governor lie is giving about 80%, of his time to the cause of Rotary. To be chosen as the District Governor out of about 500 Rotarians in the 80th District undoubtedly bears great testimony to his popularity and ability." (Applause). H.R. H. Prince Purachatra was then cailed upon to give his address. H.R.H. Prince Purachatra said :—"Fellow Rotarians, Mr. Khan Ah Chong gave an analogy of the birth of the Kuching Rotary Club and referred to Mr. Calvert and Dr. Wong Cheong Way as its father and mother respectively. I would like to check him here. He himself is really the mother whilst Mr. Calvert and Dr. Wong are only the nurses who have to nurse and bring up the child. I am, as it were, the father and, I have had two babies within a month, one was born in Taiping, F.M.8., and the other is bom here to-night. I must give you a few brief facts about Rotary. Rotary undertakes to inspire men to realize fully their individual capacity for patriotic citizenship in their State and nation, to give a square deal to their employees, their customers, and their business and professional associates and. individually and through their association in Rotary Club, to bring about understanding, goodwill and international peace through a world fellowship of business and professional men united in the ideal of service. Rotary is not a religious body nor is it a political one. it has no secrets and its success lies upon those three facts. Rotary used to have six objects which have now been reduced to four. They are simple and yet are so noble. I would like to stress on the point of internationalism. There are two kinds of internationalism, the internal and external. The internal one only confines itself to the limits of the country in which you live and you can develop friendship and goodwill among all races and nationalities through that. The external inter¬ nationalism has a wider aspect. No matter to whichever country you go, where Rotary Clubs exist, you will meet and make new friends and through this, understanding and goodwill will arise. I will not dwell at length on the four objects of Rotary because they cannot be better sum¬ marized than by the lines which I will quote now :— "Red rose, for the living, and handclasps warm and true, A heart that’s tuned to giving, and strength to dare And do: The sound of honest laughter, the joy of honest toil; For those that follow after, to leave a finer soil. All this has been and ever will be the Notary plan. A man's sincere endeavour to serve his fellownum. "A little seeking, a little more for men, Less hitter in our speaking, more kindly with the pen; A little loss of swerving from paths of truth and right, A little more of serving, and less of dollar might, More peaceful with our neighbours, and stauncher to our friends. For tins all Rotary labours, on this its hope depends. "To smooth the way for others, to make of life the most; To make the phrase "our brother" mean more than ideal boast; To praise sincere endeavour, when praise will spur it on; Withholding kind words never until the friend is gone; "This is the Rotary spirit, this is the Rotary dream, God grant that we may near it, before we cross (he stream." I will not detain you any longer here as there arc some things more interesting upstairs.” (Applause.) Mr. E. Parnell thanked the Prince for his in¬ spiring address and wished the new Club every success. Then the gathering was treated to some very interesting films about Mexico Convention last year and the District Conference held at Ipoh at the beginning of this month. Persaudaraan Sahabat Pena Malaya. (BROTHERHOOD OF PEN FRIENDS), The members of the Persaudaraan Sahabat Pena Malaya held their third Annual Reunion Tiffin at Woodford's Bungalow. Tanjong Bungah, Penang, on Saturday, April 12th, 1936. About 220 mem¬ bers from all parts of Malaya sat down to tiffin, and a very happy afternoon was spent. Before tiffin was served, the President, Mr. S. M. Zainul Abidin, B.A. (London). in his opening speech welcomed all the members, and addressing the gathering in Malay, gave a short review of the aims and objects of the Brotherhood. Mr. Abidin said: "This is the third Reunion Tiffin we have had during the two years' existence of our Brotherhood, and this is the first occasion it is held in Penang, the Headquarters of the Brotherhood. To-day's attendance surpasses all those at previous Reunion meetings, and I am immensely pleased that so many representatives from all parts of Malaya have taken a great deal of trouble to travel all the way to Penang to attend this Reunion Function. You will be glad to hear that our membership to-day is 3,100 (applause). Our aims and objects which are in accordance with the tenets of our religion, attract members, aud the move on the part of our Brotherhood to enrich our language and literature is gaining popularity by leaps and bounds, in spite of the existence of some who place obstacles in our way. "This representative gathering, unique in the history of Malays of Malaya, is a testimony that our people are becoming conscious of the poverty of our literature. Let us all co-operate and strive hard to carry out our aims faithfully. You will presently hear some short addresses by our mem¬ bers in connection with those aims, and I ask you to listen to them without prejudice. Some of the ideas expressed may be a little too lofty just now for our Brotherhood to put into practice. We should be patient and carry out some of those ideas slowly. We have established our Library and Reading Room in Penang, but it will take some time before books can he properly catalogued and issued. I hope you realise rhe difficulty of running a library. "Some of our members fear that the member¬ ship is getting too big to be under proper control. I should like to bring home to you that our money is safe in the Chartered Bank, and with our present system of keeping accounts, the General Committee in Penang could cope even with a membership ten times as large. We should enrol the right type of members, who are really lovers of literature, those who are keen and arc willing to work for the community. We have before us a bright future, and our literary aims and objects if carried out along a straight path, will be crowned with success. On behalf of Penang members I extend to you a sincere welcome to Penang." The Hon. General Secretary next read a message of good wishes from Sarawak. The following members then delivered the undermentioned addresses :— At the conclusion of the speeches the President thunked the speakers, the various sub-committees for the excellent arrangements and the Hon. General Secretory, Mr. S. A. Alhady, for his untiring efforts to make the function the success that it was. In the evening a Tea Party was held amidst the musical strains of the Sri Majlis Kronchong Party, after which a group photograph was taken. Raja Hussain of Johore, one of the members, then enter¬ tained the gathering to an excellent conjuring show, at the conclusion of which the very happy and picturesque assembly in Malay costume dis¬ persed, so most of the members leaving by night mail the mine evening. The weather, which was fine throughout the day, added to the conviviality of the occasion. It is probable that the next Reunion Tiffin will be held in Singapore. —(Contributed.) Racecourse Development Fund. LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. KUCHING, 15TH APRIL., 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. Sir, 1 enclose herewith further lists showing actual collections towards the Racecourse Development Fund, and shall be obliged if you will publish same in the next issue of the Sarawak Gazette. I am, Sir, Your obedient servant, F. H. POLLARD, Acting Resident, First Division. Night Letter Telegram Service between Sarawak and Great Britain. On and from the 1st of May, 1936, the existing Daily Letter Telegram (DLT) service between Sarawak and Great Britain has been altered to a Night Letter Telegram (NLT) service. Night Letter Telegrams shall hear the service indication NLT and will generally follow the rules for Daily Leiter Telegrams as regards charge and special services admitted except that the normal delivery will be on the morning after the day of handing in. An Apology. It has been pointed out to me that my letter to the children in a recent issue of the Borneo Chronicle about “Unwanted Children" has misled people into thinking that child-slavery and infanticide are com¬ monly practised in Sarawak and Borneo. This is of course not so, and I much regret that such a meaning should has been read into my words, and I wish to apologise for giving such a wrong impression, and to add my conviction that of course the authorities concerned would never knowingly coun¬ tenance such customs. The point of the letter was to bring to notice the sad fact that many children are unwanted. The customs referred to are, I am told, practised in some parts of China.—W. LINTON. Sylvia Cinema. First Division News. MARCH. Seventy-two civil and fifty-two criminal cases came before the Kuching Courts during March. On March 28th, the body of an old Chinese named Goh Lau Choo was found in a house at Chin Chiang Sawmills, Padungan, and on the 31st the body of a Chinese named Lim Ah Pow was found lying on the Pending Road at the 3rd mile. Tn both cases in view of the medical evidence no inquest was held. Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, Acting District Officer, Kuching, left for Lundu on March 17th, returning on the 24th. Much of this time was spent in visiting Dayak villages. Apart from a number of rubber restriction offences, no serious crime was reported in the Ban district during March. Five hundred and fifty-nine persons were treated at the Government Dispensary during the month. One hundred and ten N.A.B. injections were given, and sixteen minor operations were per¬ formed. The kampongs in the Jagoi area were visited by the District Officer, Bau, according to programme. All Chiefs in that district were warned about rubber smuggling, tuba fishing, and the planting of rubber. The main Bau Road shewed a definite improve¬ ment during March, but daily rain has not assisted much. It was decided that the Jugan end S. Ikan roads should be closed to wheel traffic, and main¬ tained as footpaths only. Work has commenced on the new car park; the road from "Simpang Besar" to Bridge No. 1 has been enlarged, and will shortly be open for two- way traffic. Native Officer Abang Haji Adenan proceeded up the Left Hand Branch on March 16th to investi¬ gate the boundary dispute between Senah and Dutch Dayaks. He returned on the 29th; when his maps and reports are completed they will be handed to the Survey Office for fixing, and later a decision will be given. While away, Abang Haji Adenan visited Kam- pongs Semban, Jogong. Keding' Kekas, Brang Tebessey, Brang Wah, Senah Sadir, Bedut and Tepoi, in addition to other Kampongs which had already Ireeii visited this year. The following table gives the individual output of gold from the various mines for March, 1936 : On March 3rd, a Malay named Talip bin Abas was fined $500 at Lundu for smuggling rubber into Sarawak. Apart from this there was no serious crime in die Lundu district. Hill padi in the Lundu district is ripening well, and the crop promises to be good; rats and insect pests, however, have done extensive damage to the swamp padi, and it looks as though the harvest will hardly be worth collecting. Chinese named See Heng Lee from Samunsan was taken by a crocodile on March 17th while crossing Sungei Belinsah. The corpse was recovered the following day. At Serian thee appeal of Kampong Slabi against the District Court's decision in their land dispute case with Kampong Sroban was dismissed with costs. Appellants have since appealed to the Supreme Court i • Nissa Shokai Estate. Ltd., Samarahan. was fined $200 for breach of Order R—3 section 9 (i) by planting rubber. Five Malays from Tebekang were fined for tapping rubber during the February tapping holiday. One Chinese from Samarahan and one from Gedong were found storing rubber in excess of the amounts allowed in their licences. The rubber was confiscated and burned. On March 15th. the body of a baby about three days old was found floating in the Samarahan river. Police are making investigations, as this is obviously a case of a mother, probably Malay, doing away with an unwanted child. A Melanau from Mukah named Abu employed with the survey party at present at Tebekang died of cerebral malaria .on March 23rd at Sedan, and was buried next day at Tebekang. The Serian office has been full of Dayaks every day paying in their gun tax. There has been a considerable amount of fever at Serian and Tebekang; otherwise the health of the district has been satisfactory. A report was received from Smrah that three Chinese from Jemukan while sailing to Kuching were upset off Tanjong Sampun on March 11th. One managed to get ashore, but the other two were drowned, one body not being recovered. St. Thomas’ School. JUBILEE APPEAL. "Time alone can tell” is a common expression of hope mingled with fear in any new project, and this, no doubt, was the comforting and encouraging thought in the minds of the founders of this school fifty years ago. Time indeed has told its tale, and the school has more than justified the faith and hope of those responsible for its inception. From a mere handful of boys, the scholars now number close on five hundred. During the last fifty years thousands of boys have passed through its portals, and, as educated men they have proved themselves capable of taking their places as worthy citizens of the State. It is without any sense of pride or boastfulness that we state the well known fact that St. Thomas' boys are to be found amongst the leaders of both the Chinese and Malay com¬ munities in Sarawak, holding responsible positions in many walks of life. Through times of prosperity and times of depres¬ sion there has flowed from the school a steady stream of young men, trained, not only in scholar¬ ship, but also in character and knowledge of the high purpose, for which the school stands. The School has always aimed at providing a good education for all, irrespective of race or creed, rich or poor and has been ready to help deserving boys, by giving free or partly free education. Frequently the school takes the place of parents and homes, and provides food, clothing and shelter as well as education for needy boys. Year by year the burden of providing for these boys falls on the school finances and on the kindness of friends in England. In appreciation of what has been done in the past, a fitting commemoration of our Golden Jubilee would be the inauguration of a fund which would provide an annual income for helping the needy scholars of the school. If during the Jubilee year, a sum of $15,000 could be raised, $8,000 could be invested and the income derived therefrom devoted to the support of such scholars. A more Visible Jubilee Memorial could also be erected in the form of School Library and/or a Grandstand along one side of the playing field. Surely there can be no more fitting way for Old Boys and friends to join the School in com¬ memorating its Jubilee than by giving liberally to this fund and thereby helping in the great work for which the school stands, the educating and character-building of succeeding generations. Some time during September we hope to crown our efforts with a gala day for all those interested in the past, present and future welfare of the school. The success of our Jubilee depends upon the combined efforts of all Old Boys and Friends. Therefore remember, it all depends upon you. Kuching Badminton Association. The badminton season is now in full swing, and the game is becoming still more popular judging by the number of new courts which have sprung up recently. During the month a start was made with the friendly Inter-club games. Kong Go’s, The Brothers' and the Min Teck School Parties visited the Sarawak Club, and Sarawak Club players visited the Hollywood and The Brothers' Badmin¬ ton Parties. Entries for the Association's open tournament close on May 16th. The events to be staged comprise men's singles and doubles, women's singles and doubles, mixed doubles and inter- party. Second Division News. MARCH . Eleven criminal and eight civil cases came before the Simanggang Courts during March. 239 out-patients were treated at Simanggang Government Dispensary during the month, and 132 N.A.B. injections performed. From the Simanggang bazaar two simple cases of diphtheria were brought to hospital for isolation; fortunately the infection has not spread. The last victim was the hospital tukang ayer, who, together with the other patients, soon recovered after receiving injections of the antitoxin. Taxes in the Simanggaug District are coming in well. On the 19th Penghulu Kalong of the Batang Ai tendered his resignation. which was accepted; he ceased to be Penghulu at the end of the month. For some time there have been complaints from the Dayaks in his district, and his work has been far from satisfactory. A new Penghulu will have to be elected. Seeds and cuttings from Kuching were planted at the experimental demonstration vegetable garden at Enteban, Skrang. early in the month; they were later reported to be doing well. Mr E. M. Selous, Acting Secretary for Chinese Affairs, arrived at Simanggang on the 5th. having meanwhile visited Pantu, where on the 3rd. he was present al the election of the Kapitan China. Hiew Phiaw. Mr. Scions visited Engkilili on the 6th, returning to Simanggang on the 7th. On the 9th he went to Betong. and returned again on the 11th. Two new smoke-houses were built behind Simanggang bazaar during the month. On March 5th Badin (Dayak) of Rumah Enchi- rong, Stengin, Lemanak, brought in a crocodile which he had shot at Lubok Engkramah, Lemanak river. The beast measured 14 feet and 4 inches On March 3rd Native Officer Abang Abu Talip and the troops arrived back from the Ulu, and reported having found an outlaw’s langkau in the Ulu Wo. patch Jeklan. This appeared to have been deserted for about two or three months, bnt had been in use for some considerable time. The outlaws had evidently left before Kudang's death, as there were no signs of a hasty evacuation, runny of the attaps having been taken away by the owners. In all probability the outlaws are still in that neighbourhood. A Dayak case which has been outstanding tor some considerable time and was to have been decided by diving, was finally settled more or less amicably at Lubok Antu on March 11th This case was between Penghulu Jimbun of Delok. and Ujai of Bui, and started over a dispute about lanuh saka. a piece of jungle set aside out of respect for an ancestor of Ujai's killed there in battle many years ago. A part of this jungle was said to have been farmed by Penghulu Jinibun. Ujai, in anger, gathered a force and went to these farms and caused some damage there in their owners’ absence. The case was eventually settled as follows :— P. Jimbun was fined one pikul for farming tanah sake and was ordered to pay pemali of one mungkul, one manok. and one duku. Ujai was fined for his offence, sigi alas mekang ($10) one jani, one duku. Tn the settlement of this ease, at which various tuai helped, Ngang of Bulo deserves special mention for his common sense, knowledge of adat and his fearlessness in speaking out. Two criminal cases were held in the Resident's Court, Betong, Mr. P. M. Adams presiding. In the first, Lading of Spak was sentenced to nine months' imprisonment for causing hurt, and in the second Stephen Panus of Buloh Antu was sen¬ tenced to two months for bigamy. Later Panus' sentence was commuted to one week’s imprison¬ ment and a fine of twenty-five dollars. At Betong Dispensary 171 out-patients were treated during March, and 54 N.A.B. injections were administered. The general health of the district was good. Weekly visits to the bazaar and Government quarters were made by the Dresser. The three Tuai Rumah who visited Kuching to interview His Highness the Rajah returned to Betong on the 5th. It is understood that their requests will be reconsidered when His Highness visits the Second Division next month. Dayaks have been informed that until further notice no cartridges will be sold to any person living above Nanga Spak, and that consequently arm tax will not he collected from that district. The rainfall during March was exceptionally heavy in the Saribas District; rivers were in flood and numerous rice farms were damaged. On the 25th aud 26th the Government compound and foot¬ ball field were flooded, an occurrence that has not been witnessed for many years. It is feared that considerable damage was incurred at the experi¬ mental vegetable garden, where over an acre, had been newly planted. However, in spite of the rains, reports on padi continue to be satisfactory, and a fair to good crop is expected throughout the district. The following are extracts from a report from the District Officer, Saribas ;— “On March 13th at 9.80 p.m. I proceeded down river in the Rita and after a brief call at Kampong Sila arrived at Pusa at 3.15 a.m. Leaving again at 4.30 a.m. I eventually arrived at Debak at 8 a.m. "Unfortunately as the outboard came along¬ side her propeller fell off. Malays and Dayaks were turned out and assisted by diving in relays continually for two days. The propeller was recovered on the evening of the 16th; in the meantime, though, the engineer had ingeniously constructed a propeller from used opium tubes. It must be recorded to his credit that this con¬ traption succeeded in propelling the boat at half speed. "On the 17th, accompanied by Abang Taha, Native Officer, I returned to Pusa and arrived in Betong at midday on the 19th. During this visit several cases were heard and information given to the public regarding Rubber Restriction. "On the 24th I accompanied the Resident, Second Division, on a visit to Gensurai Layar. We returned in the outboard the same day." Twelve vessels entering and twelve vessels cleared the port of  Betong during the month. On two occasions Chinese launches ran aground off Nanga Paku. The Chuan Kim Aik was stranded for three days but was eventually towed off by the Bulan. The La Follette succeeded in getting off on the same tide, hut for a short period her condition was critical. A large number of passengers’ property was lost overboard. Third Division News MARCH. Thirty-three civil and sixty-one criminal cases came before the Sibu Courts during March. The total land revenue for the Third Division for February amounted to $8,092.88 as compared with $6,169.76 for the corresponding month of the pre¬ vious year. The collection for Sibu District for the month amounted to $5,673.60. Seventeen applications including three for build¬ ing were approved totalling 49.70 acres. Two hundred and forty-five deeds were registered. Registration fees and stamp duty amounted to $746.40. Mr. C. S. Sergei arrived from Kuching on the 4th, en route for the Ulu Rejang to carry out a trig reconnaisance. Mr. B. J. C. Spurway, Divisional Forest Officer, returned from Pelagus and Pala Wong on the 15th. having completed the survey of the boundaries of the Pelagus Protected Forest. It is regrettable to have to report that all the timber for the construction of the new hospital is being procured outside the Division, local mills being unable to supply timber of the species and standard required. The licensee working in Bukit Lima Reserve has ceased work temporarily owing to trouble with his labour. The Kanowit mill has commenced operations again, and is awaiting a supply of new logs which are reported to be on the wav down from the Kapit District. The Hua Seng mill operating in Rantau Panjang, Igan, took out a licence to log kapor in the Kapit District, as a result of the dislike of local labour to working the neigh¬ bouring swamp forest which carries excellent stands of meraka. The following arc the statistics for Sibu and Kanowit for the month :— Piling to the foundations of the new Sibu hospital is still in progress, and it is anticipated that it will be rather more than a month before this is completed. On March 2nd Mr. W. L. P. Sochon, Assistant Commissioner of Sarawak Constabulary, proceeded to Kut en route to Dalat, Oya, Mukah and Bulingian on inspection. On the 13th he returned from Mukah District by outboard motor via the Kut. On the 17th a case of chicken-pox was reported in one of the Police Barracks in Green Road, Sibu, the patient as well as other inmates occupying the barracks were isolated from 17th to 31st. The quarters were thoroughly disinfected and vaccina¬ tions performed on all children in all the barracks who were not previously vaccinated. No further eases occurred. Twenty-seven civil and thirty criminal cases came before the Lower Rejang Courts during March. Monthly sessions have been instituted at Sarikei for all civil eases in the Police and District Courts, the session to commence on the first Monday in each month. They are proving successful. There was no serious crime in the Lower Rejang District during March. Two Malays were arrested on the night of the 29th for attempting to smuggle a maias on board the s.s. Kampar, outward bound, and were released on $400 bail. Reports were received that much of the Dayak padi in the Lower Rejang has been spoiled by the depredations of wild pigs, which are exceptionally numerous this year. The Agricultural Assistant continued this examina¬ tion of rubber gardens at Sarikei, and left Daro and Matu on the 29th to examine the sago areas. A meeting of local pepper gardeners was called on March 27th to discuss methods of improving the yield and eliminating disease. The meeting was adjourned until April 1st. Sarikei Wharf spring fenders were three times damaged by shipping during the month, and duly repaired. Wharfingers were engaged for the wharves at both Sarikei and Binatang. The new godown at Binatang was completed early in the month, but the work was not found completely satisfactory. More earth-filling was added to replace sinking nf the original filling. Roads in Sarikei Municipal Area are in good condition, as is the Repok Road out to the 6th mile, the repairs being satisfactorily completed. Contracts were signed for clearing the Sarikei- Balat road and the Binatang-Kelepu road, both of which arc badly overgrown. Gravel was ordered for delivery at Sarikei bazaar, and at Jakar Police station. The prison vegetable-garden at Sarikei is doing well and is being extended to make room for further varieties. Visitors to Sarikei during the month included the Acting Government Secretary, the Secretary for Internal Affairs, the Acting Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, Messrs. Summers and Farrelly of the Land and Survey Department. Dr. A. D. Hutchison, Mr. Sochon, Mr. Roach of the Island Trading Co., Messrs. Cobbold and Colman of the Borneo Co., Mr. McNeice, and Mr. and Mrs. Merrill, American visitors. Several cases of assault and one of affray came before the Kapit Courts during March; these all occurred in the bazaar, and owing to the increasing frequency of this type of case it will be necessary to inflict severe penalties if any more occur. No serious crime, however, came to light during the month. Penghulus Sibat, Atan, Manok Manchal and Ugak visited Kapit during the month. On March 30th Penghulu Grinang with his bala of fifteen arrived back empty-handed at Kapit from his expedition in search of outlaws in the ulu Gat and Kanyan. Apparently they were captured by a Dutch expedition which had lost its way in Sarawak territory; on production of Grinang's letter of authority, and when the Dutch realized they were in Sarawak, Grinang and his bala were released, and were paid by the Dutch to show them the way- back to Dutch territory. The padi in the Mujong district is on the whole good and harvesting is almost finished. The reports show that padi in other districts is patchy. Very little rattan was exported from Kapil owing to the low price offered. Chop Lee Hua (37 parties) rafted to Sibu 395 logs. 110 logs remaining at Kapil. During the course of a trip to the ulu Mujong the District Officer, Kapit, received complaints from two "Punan Batu" regarding the Oyan Dayaks. Apparently only nine Punan Batu remain, five females and four males, and they are absolutely dependent on the small amount of ui letek in ulii Melinau for a livelihood. Until now Dayaks have only worked damar in the ulu Melinau, and Melinau Dayaks have appreciated that the wi should be left for the Punans, with whom they are friendly. Oyan Dayaks, however, on the pretence of working damar have attacked the wi letek; the District Officer is calling down these Oyan Dayaks, and it is hoped to arrange for the small amount of wi Ictek in ulu Melinau to be reserved for the Punan Batu, sole survivors of the tribe, who appear doomed to extinction. The Revd. Mother Clare of Dalat R.C. Mission was very ill during the mouth. Dresser Ho Ah Kiew went over from Mukah to treat her, and she is now reported to be getting better,—a wonderful recovery for an old lady of her age. Penghulu Ambun of Balingian has asked to be allowed to obtain a schoolmaster for some twenty prospective pupils whose parents wish to start a small school. Abang Mils, Native Officer, went to the S.O.L. camp at Penipah (by arrangement with Dr. Irving) as Penghulu Slan had informed the S.O.L. head Dayaks Unit his coolies (120 or so) would get no redress for butang and other domestic offences, as none of the coolies were properly married to their women. Penghulu Sian stated be was told to adopt this policy by a former District Officer. As I doubt whether this is so, I instructed Abang Mus to inform Penghulu Sian and the said head Dayak (Uchong) that the S.O.L. Dayaks should be treated in exactly the same way as any Dayak house and that they come under Penghulu Sian's jurisdiction. Dr. Irving agrees to this. The monthly meeting of Tua Kampongs was held at Mukah on March 16th. Some 150 Melanaus also attended. They were urged to plant new sago gardens, or to re-stock old existing gardens and were informed that free tenure is conditional on the land being fully planted up. (Very few new gardens have been opened up recently, and many are only sparsely planted). Arrangements have also been made to inform natives of the prices of sago weekly, us at present they are receiving prices very much below the correct market prices. Such prices will (from March 1st) be recorded on a sago graph, so that the Courts will have an indication of the price at any¬ time after this date, when settling debt cases. Those present were informed of this and urged to sell in the best market. Juragan Bakar bin Suleiman reported that his handling, the Sri Titian, was wrecked off Igan and blown ashore as a total loss about March 10th. The owner, who was aboard, agreed that this accident was nobody’s fault. No lives were lost. Twenty -eight vessels cleared from Mukah during tile month totalling 1,057 tons. The Chong Boon School al Mukah was visited by the District Officer during the month. The head¬ master stated that Malay is taught for two one-hour periods weekly. The. pupils, on being questioned by the Senior Native Officer, Pengiran Haji Mohamat, who was present, were either too frightened to talk or knew but little Malay, a knowledge of which is a condition of the grant. Otherwise the school appears to be an excellent one. On March 29th it was reported at Dalat that a Melanau youth named Wat bin Aso had attempted to commit suicide by cutting his throat. He has been sent to Sibu for medical attention and observation. Apart from this, no serious crime was reported in the Oya and Dalat District during the month. The Mukah dresser paid his usual routine visit to Oya and Dalat during the month. The bazaars and Government quarters were inspected and found to be clean and in order. The general health of the District was satisfactory. On March 25th the Divisional Medical Officer, Dr. A. D. Hutchison, arrived at Oya in the m.1. Chamois. During his trip Dalat was visited, and the proposed temporary quarters for the new dresser and the temporary accommodation for the dispensary were inspected. The District Officer accompanied the Divisional Medical Officer to Mukah on 28th in order to discuss the transfer of certain drugs from Mukah to Dalat. The m.l. Chamois was held up in Oya on 27th as the weather was loo rough for her to put to sea. The District Officer, Oya and Dalat, reports that Wan Hussein, Native Officer, travelled the whole of Penghulu Dagang’s district from March 16th to 29th and visited all houses. A certain amount of door tax, fines and gun tax was collected. In each house the names of the tuai bilek were taken, and also the names of the owners of shot-guns in order that the Registers might be checked. The policy of Government concerning the issue of cartridges was explained, as also was the position as regards the outlaws still at large. The importance of the tongkat system of com¬ munication was impressed upon all Tuai Rumah, and the recent Orders concerning rubber tapping, the manufacture of scrap rubber, and the hours during which rubber may be tapped were all explained. There was strangely little grumbling, but Dayaks are not pleased with the Order prohibit¬ ing tuba fishing in spite of the fact that the benefits to be gained by its total abolition have been explained time and again. Melanau fishing was again at a standstill during the month owing to rough weather. Wan Hussein, Native Officer, reports that the padi crop in the ulu this year is again an almost com¬ plete failure. Up to some two months ago high hopes were entertained for a good crop, but ruts and mice have caused terriffic havoc since then. The most fortunate houses have sufficient padi to last for three or four months, and the most unfortunate sufficient for anything up to a maximum of a month. This is what the Dayaks themselves say, so it is probably a pessimistic estimate. Notices in connection with the manufacture and export of scrap rubber, the forthcoming tapping holiday, and the hours during which it is permitted to tap rubber, wore issued throughout the Oya and Dalat district, and steps were taken to inform all heads of communities. The repairs to the Penat bridge were, completed during the mouth. A good job has been done. A new store was built for the Oya lighthouse and the lighthouse keeper's quarters were repaired. The large bridge on the Room Road at. Oya was repaired, and owing to rotten state of the timber this amounted almost to rebuilding. Six schooners and four motor launches cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 303 tons. On March 3rd ten collecting boxes for the Mosque Fund were distributed nt Ova to the heads of the Mohamedan community. These boxes are scaled and are fitted with a strip of spring in order to foil any attempt to get donations out of the box once they are in it. The boxes were still in circulation at the end of the month, and the result of collections is not yet known. On March 29th a talking cinema was opened at Oya. It had been operating at Dalat previously, but wlien the proprietor decided to move on it was learnt that he did not intend to visit Oya. Certain local towkays and others therefore subscribed a sum of fifty dollars and hired the cinema for three nights. The machine and screen were erected in the middle of the street in Ova Bazaar, and the show for the throe nights was free to all who wished to come. The whole show was a thorough success; the pictures were excellent and the crowds phenomenal. Most of those present had never seen a moving picture before, and the way they continued to come on the. second and third nights is sufficient evidence of their appreciation of the show. On the last night, the 31st, the crowds stretched from the Kapitan China's shophouse to the Chinese, school on both sides of the screen, as it had been learnt that the show could be seen just as well from the back of the screen as the front. It is noteworthy that Ova has possibly never seen a crowd before such as that on this night; there must have been at least five hundred people present. The pictures shown included Shanghai Express, Airmail, and Tom Mix in Flaming Guns. On March 29th a fire occurred in the Chinese Cemetery which is situated close to the Bazaar. The fire was extinguished and no damage was done. At an. inquiry held on 31st no evidence of incendiarism was disclosed. Opening of the Sibu Foochow Commercial Recreation Club. The Foochow Community in the Rejang river made a must progressive step when a new Club styled the Sibu Foochow Commercial Recreation Club was opened by Mr. C. D. Adams,’Resident, Third Division, on the afternoon of March 26th. The officials and members of the club, European residents who had been invited to attend the cere¬ mony, and quite a large crowd of other onlookers were gathered in front of the new club premises when the Resident arrived at 4 p.m. Mr. Adams made a short speech congratulating the enterprise before cutting the green ribbon stretched across Ilie main entrance, and declaring the club open. The club at present occupies the middle floor of the last house at the down-river end of the block in Island Road opposite the Methodist Church. It is understood that in time the club wish to acquire the whole building. The premises are extremely well furnished, especially the bed¬ rooms provided for the use of outstation members and visitors to Sibu. After the opening ceremony the Chairman, Mr. Yu Sut Moi, asked the guests to christen the club in the usual manner. The Resident proposed success and prosperity to the club and the toast was given almost musical honours. The Chairman replied in Foochow his speech being interpreted. A photograph was then taken outside the club. The proceedings wound up with an excellent dinner served in the main room of the club at 7 p.m.—(Contributed.) Fourth Division News. MAUCH, 1936. His Highness the Rajah arrived in Miri on the last day of March, and made an official landing at 3 p.m. His Highness was accompanied by Dayang Valerie mid Mrs. C. D. Adams. A guard of honour was furnished by the Sarawak Constabulary under the command of Mr. I). V. Murphy. Leading natives and Chinese met Bis Highness on the wharf. Mr. 11. B. Wilmot. Trade Commissioner, Singa¬ pore, arrived in Miri from Kuala Beloit on March 19th. and left for Kuching the next day. Mr. T. A. Reid of tlie Public. Works Department was in Miri from March Will until the 27th, making a report on the Miri Government buildings and public works generally. The slate of the Govern¬ ment offices makes it clear that something will have to be done soon. Mr. E. Banks, Curator of the Sarawak Museum, arrived in Miri on the 17lli and left a few days later for the upper walers of the Baram River where, it is understood, he pnqxwes to enquire further into the rumours of a last civilisation there. Padi reports throughout the Fourth Division aro satisfactory, and in some cases good, except from Baram. One sympathises with the people there, but it would be interesting to know why the rats and mice there are alleged to be worse than in other districts. Last year Government distributed $1,500 in relief, and this year provision has been made for $5,000. This cannot go on, and it will be necessary to find out whether these failures are unavoidable, or whether they are the result of laziness. Very few natives came down to Limbang during March as they were all busy finishing their harvests. This was mostly completed by the end of the month by Dayaks, Muruts and Bisayahs. There is still a small amount of swamp padi to be collected by Malays. The padi crops throughout the Limbang district have been above the average. The following is a rough guide for the district :- (a) Kelabits in (he Medihit, Ulu Limbang, started well, but pests interfered, and very little padi was gathered although they have a very abundant catch-crop of krebang. (b) The Skrang Dayak reserve up to Sungei Ladong has a bumper crop except for a few doors who commenced too early; these were fair crops only. (c) Penghulu Belulok and his Muruts have bumper crops except for a few who were too lazy to plant and protect their farms sufficiently. (d) Bisayahs and Kadayans. Good average crops. (e) Dayaks and Tagals in Lnbai fair only owing to very bad land. (f) Malays. Good average crops. The harvest as a whole can be considered very successful. Mr. J. R. Outram, Passed Cadet, accompanied by Abang Hamdan, Native Officer, visited Rangau and the down-river kampongs from March 4th to 6th. On March 7th Mr. Maclaren of Batu Apoi brought over a combined Temburong and Batu Apoi football team to compete against Limbang. Much to every¬ one’s surprise, Limbang won 3-0. The visitors were entertained in the club in the evening. The following day they sailed for Brunei, where they played the Police and Customs team. The District Officer visited the Dayaks in the Sebiew, Silas and Benai Rivers during March. The prospect for the padi harvest is as bad in these districts as everywhere else, and a shortage of padi amongst the Dayaks and Malays is generally certain. A Malay coolie named Seman bin Sukor fell from a coconut tree in the Bintulu Government compound and died in hospital six hours later. He was employed at the time of hie fall in fixing attaps to a clerk's quarters. The Dresser-in-Charge of Baram hospital had an accident whilst opening a bottle of ammonia and damaged an eye. Under personal treatment it did not become any easier, so he was sent to Miri on the 13th, and returned a few days later. The District Officer, Baram, reports that towards the end of the month the Penghulus and many headmen arrived down preparatory to meeting His Highness the Rajah early in April. In every case the reports of the harvest were bad, and many have no seed with which to plant the new crops. There is little hope of obtaining immediate repay¬ ment for the assistance given last year, and it is certain that further help will be required in a few months. The causes are due almost entirely to rats and mice, of which there have been an unpre¬ cedented number. In view of this shortage of food, it had been intended to postpone the Baram Regatta until next year or until such time as the harvest was sufficient, but, before the matter could be discussed, the chiefs themselves asked that no Regatta should be held. This means that the Kelabits can be visited after all. Visits were paid by Mohamed Zin Galau to Long Lama and Beluru in connection with the reports made last month of deaths by crocodiles; Inquests were held and the stories, as reported, were found to be correct. Verdicts of death by misadventure were returned in both cases. The crocodiles were killed and the bodies of the deceased recovered. Samat, the Bakong headman, lost over a hundred pasu of newly-harvested rice in a fire that destroyed his farming hut near Beluru. A party of eight Kayans who were in Miri for medical treatment became stranded for lack of funds, and had to be sent back at Government expense. They were kept in Marudi until their debts had been paid, and were reprimanded. They had had suffi¬ cient cash when they departed, but the lure of the shops was too enticing, and it all vanished in un¬ necessary expenditure. Kampong Narum was paid an official visit for the first time in many years. It is an old custom that these people should be visited once every three months, and in future it will be done. The attendance at the Baram Vernacular school had dropped to a very low figure, and it became necessary for the District Officer to address a few words to a meeting of parents and boys. After a few days the attendance was more than doubled, and should be trebled in a week or so. Mr. H. P. Buxton, Assistant Forest Officer, arrived at Baram on the 17th, and proceeded Up river the next day. He is continuing his work on the Linai Protected Forest and will also do a survey of the Tutoh river. The Curator of the Sarawak Museum arrived on the 20th, and departed for the Kelabit country four days later by way of the Selungan river. He is expected to be away several months. The Assistant District Officer, Lawas and Trusan. records with regret the death on March 10th of Matassan bin Drahman, who had been Tua Kam¬ pong of Kampong Barn, Sundar, for the past fifteen years. His successor has not yet been chosen. During the month the Assistant District Officer paid a visit to Ulu Trusan and Kelalan Bah, return¬ ing to Lawas on March 20th. Nothing of interest occurred during his absence, most of the natives being busy harvesting padi. The crops generally are fair, but a certain amount of damage has been caused by rats and mice. A shortage, however, is unlikely. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 21,022 lbs. of dry rubber during the month. The following are extracts from a report by Mr. H. E. Cutfield, District Officer, Limbang and Lawas, on a visit to the Kelabits in the Ulu Medihit:— "I left Limbang by m.l. Sylvia on March 20th, 1936, accompanied by Mr. J. K. Outram and Up¬ river Agent Jaya. Ukong, where a short call was made, was reached at 1 p.m. and Sungei Prangga about 3 p.m. Here the launch was left and we boated up to R. Sandom at Tanah Merab, where the night was spent. "Penghulu Belulok was living in the house of a new wife he has recently married, and he arrived that evening. Kedoh, a brother-in-law of T. R. Sandom, accompanied the party the next day. and we were also joined by Penghulu Belulok and two followers. Calls were made at Rumah Brandah and Rumah Kedu. T.K. Kedu and one follower also joined the party, but Tama- nok Weaw being still busy with his harvest did not accompany us. Rumah Gani at N. Sepapit was reached at dusk where the night was spent. Most of the Skrang Dayak houses were repre¬ sented at Rumah Gani that night, and many things were discussed. "The following morning we examined Gani's pepper gardens; about 500 vines have been planted by this house, and look very promising. Mr. Outram returned down-river to Limbang, while I proceeded up-river with two boats. The night was spent on a gravel-bed near Sungei Entaba. "We left again up-river the next morning and should have reached the house at N. Medihit, but owing to the slight increase in flood caused by rain the previous evening we were short of this and spent the night on another gravel-bed, about one hour below N. Medihit. Thers is no habita¬ tion between Rumah Gani and the house near the mouth of the Medihit, which are two good days apart, although there are about ten wandering Punans somewhere in the Ulu of one of the side streams. We tried to get in touch with these • people, but without success. It is lovely country but not very much good for fanning, as the hills are too steep near the river, and the banks are mostly formed by steep rugged cliffs rising sheer out of the river. For practically the whole of the second day the journey was through a steep rocky gorge with a number of side streams joining the main river in waterfalls or cascades, and with the virgin jungle above these cliffs it is remark¬ ably pretty, but, as stated, it is poor farming land. "The following morning we were under way early and reached the Murut-Kelabit house of Batang Arau about 7.30 a.m. The boats were left here, and we started again on foot up the Medihit at about 9 a.m. Mr. Davidson’s house was reached after one hour's walk. This station of the Borneo Evangelical Mission is at the Peng- kalan for Tama Kuling's bouse, which is situated about 800 to 1,000 feet up and was reached after about one hour’s walk from the Pengkalan. Mr. and Mrs. Davidson were both present, but the former had been laid up for the last four days with fever. We remained at Mr. Davidson’s house, where I gratefully accepted an invitation to luncheon, until about 3 p.m., and then walked on to Tama Kuling’s house. Tama Ruling, who is recognized as the head of the Kelabits in this District, has been endeavouring to build a new house for the last eighteen months or two years, but owing to various members of his following seeing snakes and other bad omens and making this an excuse for laziness, nothing is ever done. The present house is leaning over at a perilous angle and is only held up by additional tongkats and rattan hawsers tied to tree-slumps in the hill behind. The house and its inmates are incredibly dirty, but the view from the house is magnificent, and its altitude makes it very cool at night. "Tama Ruling is recognized by the Relabits as their head, presumably owing to asal, but he is not impressive, and Balang Imat gives one the impression of having more authority and intel¬ ligence. It was originally intended to go no further than lama Ruling's house, but to spend two nights there and call all other houses there for an aum on the second night; this is what lias usually been done on previous occasions. I altered this programme, however, and decided to spend only one night there and then go on to Balang Imat's new house of 15 doors, which is about three hours' walk further up the Medihit. The meeting of people from all other houses was therefore arranged to take place there. Little business could be undertaken in Ruling’s house, anyhow, since they were already in an advanced state of alcoholic excitement by the time I arrived, and the consumption of burak and tuak continued throughout the night. "The following morning we left Rumah Tama Ruling followed by practically the whole house, in spite of the fact that most of them were suffering from alcoholic remorse. The path from here leads up through their farm and on to a ridge about 2,000 feet up; this ridge is followed the whole way until it drops down to Balang Imat's house. This, like all Kelabit houses, is high up and situated about 1,000 to 1,200 feet above sea level, and commands an excellent view. Tn one direction one looks over towards the Ulu Tutoh, patch Barra, and in the other to the watershed between the Ulu Trusan and Ulu Limbang. This house of 15 doors is newly built, and is excellent judged by ordinary Relabit standards. People from all the Kelabit houses were present that night. These were Tama Ruling, Balang Imat, Batang Maran, Balang Arau anil Tama Kalang. No jars were allowed to be opened or drink consumed until business had been completed, with the result that sen¬ sible conversation was possible and several matters were discussed. All the Relabits unanimously elected Penghulu Belulok to be their Penghulu instead of Penghulu Tamanok Weaw who is supposed to be in charge of them. All the Kelabit houses had poor crops owing to pests, but they have a very substantial catch crop in the form of krebang which is extensively planted all over their padi-fields. Much of this, though, unfortunately is turned into burak. as is most of their padi. "The following is a typical example of the mentality of these people. Soon after my arrival at Rumah Balang Imat I received a note from Mr. Davidson saying that he had received an urgent call to attend a sick child at Balang Imat's house. He prepared to follow me, but as he could not find anyone to carry his bag. and be was only just out of bed after four days’ fever, he did not think he could undertake the long walk. He mentioned that it was difficult to make out what was wrong with the child from the messenger’s description, but he gathered that it was suffering from lack of nourishment; he therefore sent a tin of condensed milk, some small doses of quinine (made up for a child) and a weak solution of stomach mixture. I went and examined the child, which looked anaemic, and found that its mother was dead. I enquired what they were feeding it on, and to my surprise they replied—'burak'. I asked if they were not giving it rice or bubor or krebang, but they replied ’No. only burak’-. The child certainly did not seem to take to the milk so well as to the stronger beverage. I wonder how long an infant could last on a diet of gin only? ‘‘Regulations against tuba-fishing and many other subjects were explained All tax from every house for 1936 was paid in full. This, I should think, is a record, since these people usually only pay once every two or three years and are always behind with their payment. Two petty cases were settled, and eventually the jars were allowed to be uncorked. "The following day we left down the Medihit by boats. The Mission was reached about 11.30. and after a short stay there to pick up their mail we left for the month and collected our down¬ river boats. The night was spent on a gravel-bed near N. Bilong in the Limbang. It rained during the evening and night with the result that a rise in the river assisted us next day. and Sprunga was reached at 6.30 p.m. M.L. Sylvia had arrived during the day. and the night was spent on board. "We left Spranga at daylight on March 28th, called at Ukong and Limpasong. and reached Tumbling at 11.30 a.m.” Miri Cricket Visit, 1936. SUCCESS OF KUCHING TEAM. On Wednesday April 8th, an expectant and happy band of cricketers set sail for Miri on the rn.v. Mar¬ garet. Fortunately for the well-being of the side the weather, apart from a spell of heavy rolling on Wednesday night, stayed fine, and Miri was reached at 1.31) a.m. on Friday. The journey, considering the varied cramped quarters, was more comfortable than had been expected. In the prevailing flat calm the Miri bar presented no terrors, and the party were all ashore by 8.30 a.m. Several of the team seized the opportunity on Friday morning to have a round of golf, and the Miri course was much admired by all who played over it. Net practice was held that evening. It was interrupted by a relay race in the swimming pool in which Taylor, Mitchell, Benson and Digby defeated a selected Miri four over a four "lengths” course by about six feet. Taylor started off by giving Kuching a lead that the remaining three stuck to manfully. Next morning—no one being late—at least, very late, the match started and Kuching having wan the toss Taylor judiciously put Miri in to bat. The opening pair played some rather steady bowling with confidence, if with but little result, but the first changes although they brought runs also collected some rather valuable wickets, and when Gascoigne came on again with the score at 56 the last five wickets fell for 15 runs. If Kuching’s ground fielding was not impeccable, their catching WHS. aud only one rather hard chance was missed. Reid in the slips held three excellent catches, two of these being particularly well taken, and in addition caught and bowled Blatchcr before, fortunately, be bad had lime to settle down. Gascoigne bowled well, and every bowler, except¬ ing Benson, got a wicket. Mitchell put down the best ball of the innings to beat Price. Kitching opened confidently, and passed Miri’s total with one wicket down. The hundred was hoisted with only two wickets down, but then a collapse set in till Gascoigne and Kitto got together. Kuching were on the whole rather lucky over dropped catches, nevertheless this should not be considered a reflection on a truly magnificent innings by Digby, who after having given a couple of early chances, presented a bat to the bowling that must have looked the size of a bam door to the Miri side. He hit five 4's and three 3's. Selous, who does not believe in running singles during the heat of the day concentrated on boun¬ daries and had eight fours in his score of 35, and was out trying to turn yet another hall to the leg boundary. Gascoigne coming in late, after Miri had fielded most of the extremely hot afternoon, and getting bis due share of good fortune, swung his bat like a mashie and apparently remembered to keep his eye on the ball. The Miri bowling remained steady to the end, but the field gave it poor support. Trechman bowled better than his figures would represeut. It was unfortunate that an injury prevented King from bowling in bis true style. Miri going in to bat again at 5 o’clock after having been in the field for about 4 hours, suffered such a series of shocks from Benson that in five overs, five wickets had fallen for seven runs. At this lime Benson's analysis read—overs 3, maidens I runs 4, wickets 5; stumps were drawn, as arranged, at 5.30 p.m. which coincided with the fall of the 5th wicket; this was as well, for the light, which had been rather queer during most of Miri’s second innings, was becoming very difficult. Miri’s misfortune continued next morning, Gas¬ coigne carrying on where Benson left off. and in twenty-five minutes the remaining wickets fell for twenty runs. The 9th wicket men were Price, who hail made 8, mid Eagle who with 10 had made top score in the ‘2nd innings (and was obviously enjoying him¬ self when he pulled across a ball that came in from the off and was out. King who followed him in (and who unfortunately had not been very fit) only lasted three halls and the match was over. Both Benson and Gascoigne returned amazing figures for this innings, and over the whole game the. latter had the remarkable record of 8 wickets for 15 runs. It will be noticed that- at one time Miri bad lost eight wickets for 9 runs in this innings. To sum up it was a game in which right from winning the toss everything went right for Kuching and wrong for the home side. Kuching's deadly catching did more than anything else to win the match, only one difficult catch being put on the ground during Miri's two innings. The ground fielding, too, was clean, and the hacking-up very good. In short Kuching looked like a team of cricketers in the field. No sooner had the cricketers sunk some very welcome beer, when seven of them were called on to play water polo. The referee and the time¬ keepers made things as easy as they could for Kuching, who in spite of the fact that five of them were novices at the game, and in spite of "Tiger" Morton's determined efforts, rather surprisingly- won by two goals to one. Here tribute should be paid to Calvert's goal¬ keeping and Digby’s and Taylor's indefatigable swimming. On Sunday April the 12th the Kuching cricket team played Miri at hockey. Kuching fielded ten men and were granted the services of an Asiatic goal-keeper, and Miri fielded a full European side. The game opened at an exceptionally fast pace, which was maintained throughout, chiefly because the ground was in perfect condition. For the first 20 mintues play was even and in midfield, then Miri presscd and from a melée in front of goal, Irving scored. Kuching replied with a good passing movement but failed to score. After half time both sides pressed repeatedly and on more than one occasion Kuching had bad luck in not scoring. C. Chater, Miri's goalkeeper, played very well nt this period and saved several hard shots by Kuching forwards, that seemed certain goals. Miri too were unable to score, their passing movements being repeatedly foiled by Reid and Digby's inter¬ ception, both of whom played excellently throughout. Hughes-Hallett for Miri and Mitchell for Kuching both played a strong game. Considering the inex¬ perience of several members of the Kuching team, they put up a very creditable performance in only losing by one goal to none. We take this opportunity of thanking Miri for a most enjoyable game on a really good ground. . Next morning our hosts, having to return to work, left us more or less to our own devices, but in the evening a golf game was arranged. Our hosts showed consideration by fielding a side as nearly equal on handicaps as they could, and deservedly won by three matches to nil, with two games halved. Gascoigne and Elam halved their matches, the latter putting up an especially good show and Mitchell, Taylor and Outram, now con¬ verted to a "Kuching-ite," all lost. It was a great pleasure and a refreshing change to putt on greens where it was "odds on" that correctly hit putts would go down and to see fair¬ ways where a bad lie was the exception rather than the rule. The writer, as no doubt do the other Kuching golfers, looks forward to having many more rounds over Miri course in the future, and in the mean¬ time looks back on his visit with the knowledge that no hosts could have been more kindly, for¬ bearing, and hospitable than those of Miri in 1936. We were treated like Kings with true Eastern Hospitality, and it is hoped that next year we shall be able to welcome a Miri ride in Kuching and give them as enjoyable a lime as was given us. CORRESPONDENCE. [The Editor is not responsible for the opinions of correspondents.] Rubber Restriction. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette. SIR, In the April issue of The Sarawak Gazette I notice that rubber statistics were given for the first two months of 193G, showing that 4,128 tons were exported instead of the 3,000 tons allowed by the quota. I notice further that rubber dealers' stocks had been reduced by 538 tons showing that merchants had sold off their supplies during the tupping holiday. To reduce the amount of rubber exports to the permissible amount, an order was suddenly given lust month which prohibited the further export of bark scrap rubber, an order that has raised much protest from the majority of owners of large mid small rubber plantations, rubber dealers, rubber millers and others interested in the industry. There are in Sarawak some 70,000 to 80,000 rubber gardens, most of them small, some even very small. Including Sungei Tengah, Sungei Moyan, Dahan, Samarahan, Lawas and a very considerable number of quite large Chinese owned estates, the average size of each holding is under three acres. All these holdings produce sheet rubber of varying qualities and scrap bark rubber, and the proportions of each may be taken approximately as 90% of sheet and 10% of scrap, the main point to remember being that to get sheet there must be bark scrap. The report from the Third Division shows that scrap forms 16% of the total amount exported, which means either that the trees are very badly tapped, or else that very bad sheet is produced; this in all likelihood takes place on a number of the small Dayak gardens. This badly-made sheet is milled and exported from Sarawak as Scrap, bill in F.M.S. it is not known as scrap but has a class of its own. In any case both the scrap and the badly-made sheet, when it is milled, are of considerable value, the present price being about £55 per ton compared with £60 per ton for good quality sheet. The export duty and cess on scrap rubber being the same as on sheet, it makes no difference to the revenue of the country which is exported. To those small producers therefore who have not the means, nor, perhaps, the skill, to make good diamond sheet, the embargo on scrap and what is known here, but not elsewhere, as scrap, must he a very great hardship. Having in the past two years, with the exception of a few months in 1934, been able to make a quite comfortable livelihood from these commodities, one can imagine what their feelings must be when they are told that in future they cannot be sold, and their means of liveli¬ hood is gone. Take the case of numbers of other small pro¬ ducers, more skilful perhaps, but still with very small holdings. Will they willingly lose their 10% scrap earnings? They will most probably overtap to get sufficient rubber to make up for its loss, thus shortening the life of their rubber trees. In the early days of the rubber industry, when rubber was at $6 per catty, the daily task for a tapper was 200 trees; a slump followed, and in order to make a living wage, the coolie had to increase this number and tap another 50 daily; then more pros¬ perous times came, and the owner of the plantation, wishing to make up for the lean years, urged his coolies to again increase the number of trees tapped, offering him higher wages as an inducement. Whether there has been a slump or a boom the daily task has increased, and now a coolie can tap 450 to 500 trees daily and will still manage to add to this number. Referring again to the excess of 1,428 tons of rubber during January and February, it is very- evident that the embargo on scrap rubber will not solve the problem of reducing the exports to the permissible quantity, considering that scrap only forms 10% of the total export and an excess of 1,428 tons means an excess of 47%. It is the considered opinion of the majority of those who have seriously thought over the question that the only solution is the compulsory stopping of tapping. The rubber producers would prefer weekly tapping holidays but this scheme was thought to be imprac¬ ticable in this country. Where there are so many very small gardens, many of them difficult of access, it was thought that the labour and expense of supervision involved would be too great. Whether it is really impracticable or not is a moot point, but it is not the purpose of this article to discuss this question. Towards the end of 1934, after very careful con¬ sideration as to what was to be the most effectual and the most just method of restricting rubber supplies, a three weeks' tapping holiday every quarter was instituted, an institution which equalized the hardships, for everyone concerned in the rubber industry. This three weeks holiday has proved to be too short, but that should not be a difficult matter to adjust without dislocating the whole industry; no further expense would be incurred, the present organization for enforcing the order being suffi¬ cient. Now that it has been decreed that no more scrap is to be exported, a eery serious question arises. What is to be done with it? Is it to be allowed to lie on the ground and become one of the happiest of hunting grounds for white ants, which having enjoyed the scrap will next attack the trees? Thia is a very great danger to all plantations almost sufficient in itself to prove that forbidding the collection of scrap is not a method to be employed in restricting rubber. Again, there is the case of the rubber millers, a small class certainly, but surely with a right to be considered. Thousands of pounds have been spent on buildings and fitting up their factories with machinery which is of no use for any purpose beyond rubber milling. These millers employ skilled men as well as coolies, the coolies must and will be dismissed,— incidentally many mean to go rubber tap¬ ping.—but what is to happen to the skilled men? Their employers can afford neither to let them go nor to keep them. Meanwhile, rent, assessment, upkeep of build¬ ings and machinery, and in some eases interest on borrowed capital must all be paid, and if the machinery forms the security for the loan then it is of very little value. A stoppage of one day’s tapping means a daily reduction of 134 tons of rubber. Would not an extension of tapping holidays, as many as were necessary, meet the difficulty of restricting supplies ? With rubber at over 30 cents per catty a con¬ siderable extension of the number of these holidays would still leave everyone concerned in a much better plight than they were 2 years ago. The hardship would fall equally on everyone. The owners of the smallest and most primitively worked gardens would be able to market their produce. The bark on the trees on all gardens would be conserved. There would be no danger from white ants. A yearly asset to the country of £99,000 would not be thrown to waste. All would feel that although profits might be less, may be considerably less, yet no one had any cause to feel unjustly treated. 1 am. etc. 28th April, 1936. INTERESTED. Antimony in Sarawak. KUCHING, 22nd April, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR, In the last issue of the Gazette you publish an article on "Antimony in Sarawak." This article, which has the appearance of being compiled from text-books or technical magazine monographs, contains several inaccuracies which the author, I think, is guilty of through a too superficial Study of his subject. "Antimony in Sarawak." Firstly, in spite of fairly intensive inquiry and prospecting there is at present no indication that "nature has stored up antimony in lavish, abun¬ dance.” , , , For a number of years during the last century Sarawak exported large quantities of antimony both metal and ore, the ore being mined chiefly in the Districts of Bau and Baku. Small shipments were made from Baram river. Since 1912, however, payable ore m these districts has become very scarce, and though there are numerous small deposits to be found, they are patchy or so low grade that they do not pay to work. Reports of deposits have been heard of from the Rejang but are also stated to be very low grade. The statement also that "The occurrence of antimony oxide as an outcrop is a never-failing indication of a vein or lode of antimony sulphide deeper down" is not accurate when applied to antimony deposits in thia country. The nearest approach to lodes are narrow "stringers” of antimony running through faults in the limestone, usually of such low value that they do not pay to blast out. Secondly, the author has, probably unwittingly, quoted prices for antimony which are definitely mis¬ leading and may cause suspicions of "profiteering” on the part of those at present buying for export. The present price of antimony regulus (the smelted ore) in London is about. £70 per ton (say $35 per picul). The price of antimony sulphide (the ore shipped from Sarawak) is from £10 - £15 per ton, $5 - $7 per picul depending on the assays of the ore. Antimony sulphide is bought by European, Japanese aud American buyers on the metallic content of the ore and nothing under 40% is accepted. The prices paid vary from time to time and run between 4/6d to 4/- for each unit (1%) of metal in the ore. Tims an ore assaying 50% metal would fetch around $125 per ton with the price at $2.50 per unit. Buyers are reluctant to accept parcels of less than 25 tons owing to assay costs, etc. To get a shipment of even this small amount is difficult nowadays in Sarawak and driblets from various sources of supply are required to make up a consignment. The result is that while a certain proportion of each lot will probably assay up to 65% sulphide the general assay of the parcel will very likely not be more than 60%, equal to 42% metal. Another risk shippers have to run is arsenic, usually associated with the metal. A shipment running more than 0.05% arsenic will be rejected. Present prices paid for antimony sulphide in Sarawak are $2.75 to $3.50 per picul for No. 1, buyers in addition paying for bags, transport charges and royalties to mines and garden owners. It is impossible to assay each little lot, so the ore is graded No. 1 and No. ‘2. Both miner and buyer's agent are excellent judges of the values and while the buyers very often find stuff bought as No. 1 does not pass muster when assayed, there is very seldom a dispute about the prices. The antimony buyer having bought a parcel at the above figure would receive $7.50 per picul for il if the assay was say 50% metal. Freight, duty, handling charges would amount to $3.50 per picul, in addition to his buying price, leaving a nett of 50 cents per picul with all the risks attendant to arsenic, disputed assays in London and claims for short weights. These figures show that "the situation of discord" is not so pregnant with "cause for complaint as the author thinks. The author’s interesting facts about antimony in Hunan will not, I trust, encourage undue optimism of Sarawak competing with China or Mexico as one of the prin¬ cipal sources of supply of the metal. From what I have heard of antimony in China, it seems to occur in very large deposits and is very high grade With sufficiently large supplies of ore, it is an easy matter, with a Government Department holding an interest, to erect smelting plant, control output and to a certain extent influence market prices. Just how much the enhanced value of the metal benefits the actual producers, we are not informed,but it may be assumed that the author’s "profitable quotations at which exporters sell to metal merchants in Europe and Japan" are not unknown to China. The penultimate paragraph of the article dealing with the future of the "minor metals" conveys an impression that there has been a slight confusion between antimony and aluminium. Yours faithfully, "STIBNITE.” Rugby League in Kuching. SIMANGGANG, 22nd April, 1936. SIR, Reference the suggestion in the Local news column of the Sarawak Gazette of April 1st, that we may one day see a Rugby League in Kuching, may I put up the other point of view, that we hope we will not. There is much to support the statement that leagues and competitions are the ruin of the sporting side of many games. The feeling over "bodyline bowling" was very probably intensified by the fact that the matches have become too much of an international com¬ petition. The stiffening of rules in Soccer that would have been unnecessary in friendly games are the outcome of leagues rather than professionalism. Indeed, we do not need to look further than Kuching to remember some painful results of com¬ petitions in the Soccer game. I trust that Rugby will be able to make itself popular without the doubtful stimulus of a league or a competition. Yours respectfully, N. MACE. Shorts for Women. 26th April, 1936. To The Editor, The Sarawak Gazette. DEAR SIR, It was good to see in your February issue the article from the Straits Times on the subject of women wearing shorts, which, though excellent as far as it goes, does not seem to me to go far enough; after a good many years in the East, I should go further and say that under no circumstances what¬ ever should women wear shorts this side of Suez, il is bad enough on the other hut anathema on this— Anyway, is not womens’ clothing scanty enough, without going any further, and it is difficult to understand this execrable craze for dressing like men, looking ridiculous, and losing the finer attri¬ butes of woman. The writer of the article above-mentioned seems to think that shorts can be worn at tennis parties, sports, etc., evidently not realizing that at all these functions out here there are Chinese or Malay servants about : and that these servants when they see their friends or relatives later will certainly relate about the “menu" dressed like china becha or add even more derogatory remarks. It is the writer's hope that this (I cannot call it anything else) sloppy dress for women will find no favour here, for the reason that as a European it is very unpleasant to think that our women are decried and put down as low class, because that is what happens—and further it is up to ns if we still wish to retain the respect of the people of the country (and much of which, it is to be regretted, has been lost) not to do anything likely to lessen it. . Perhaps whilst on this subject a few remarks as regards men wearing shorts may not be out of place—there are occasions when these are suitable and also when they are not so, and in the writer’s humble opinion one of the latter is in the Cinema. One has only to look down from the gallery on the audience seated below consisting of Eurasions, Malays, Chinese and others and without exception, almost, they are dressed in clean white or some suit with collar and tie, whilst some in the gallery (Europeans, who, by the way, should set the example) are dressed in a slovenly shirt and shorts as if they had (and probably have) just come from football or golf and had not changed; they appear in them also nt the late performance, leading to the inference that they have not even changed for dinner; do they sleep in them too? And would these individuals appear in such a dress in the better seats of a cinema or theatre in London, and if not, why do so here? And anyway, what is the matter with a clean white 5-button suit? In the last few years the tendency to become slovenly in our dress seems to increase and it is a curious fact that the more careless we get, the more Malays and Chinese turn out better dressed (not that the writer at all approves of European dress for most of them, and it is a pity they will not realize how much nicer they look in their own), but the fact remains that it is so, and the example is being set us instead of the reverse being the case; in days gone by people overdressed; nowadays they are underdressed: is there no happy medium ? Doubtless I shall have the whole of the “Shorts Brigade” against me, asking whether all this matters, and for certain I shall have the old adage “other times other manners” thrown at me, but I happen to have been out here long enough to know what does matter and what does not. and therefore am opposed to anything that is likely to cause adverse criticism. It is incumbent on us to keep our end up, a process which is not by any means so generally understood as it ought to be. Trusting that no one will take the above remarks in bad part, and thanking you, Sir, for allowing me so much space. I am, Yours faithfully, “OBSERVER.”  