THE Sarawak Gazette. The Sarawak Gazette. MONDAY. JUNE 1st. 1936. Local and personal. MAY. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie, sailed for Singapore en route for Europe by s.s. Vyner Brooke on Sunday, May 17th. A large number of friends of all nationalities came down to the boat to bid His Highness and the Dayang farewell, and as the ship cast off, three resounding cheers were given by those assembled on the wharf. His Highness was accompanied as far as Singapore by Mr. N. E. Hughes, A.D.C. His Highness the Tuan Muda arrived at Pending on May 11th, having travelled from Singapore in a Royal Air Force flying boat piloted hy Wing Commander C. L. Scott. Dayang Anne, whom we welcome back to Sarawak after an absence of some three years, arrived by the Vyner Brooke on May 15th. His Highness the Tuan Muda assumed the administration of the State on the departure of His Highness the Rajah, a proclamation to this effect being published as a Government Gazette Extraordinary on May 14th. Mr. A. W. D. Brooke arrived in Singapore on the morning of May 20th to meet His High¬ ness the Rajah, and remained in Singapore until His Highness’ departure on the 22nd. Mr. Brooke is at present attached to the Federal Secretariat in Kuala Lumpur. On May 20th His Highness the Rajah and party were entertained to dinner at Raffles Hotel by His Highness the Sultan of Johore. On the following day His Highness and Dayang Valerie lunched with Air Commodore and Mrs. Smith at the Seletar Air Base; among those present were His Highness the Sultan of Perak and His Excellency Major-General W. G. S. Dobbie, G.O.C., Malaya. In the evening a most enjoyable Chinese dinner for His Highness and party was given at the Great World by Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang, who travelled to Singapore on business by the same boat as His Highness the Rajah. We understand that Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang intends to spend about a month in Singapore. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie sailed for Europe by the Rajputana on May 22nd. They were seen off by a number of Singapore friends, and a squadron of R.A.F. plane's acted as an escort, for the ship as she left the harbour. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie expect to return to Sarawak in October, Her Highness the Rance following two or three months later. We wish them a pleasant voyage and an enjoyable stay in England. The Spring Meeting of the Sarawak Turf Club was held on May 2nd and 4th, and provided two very good days’ racing, a full account of which will be found under ‘First Division News. The popularity of the meeting was reflected by the large crowds that attended, and by the size of the prizes in the cash sweeps. The races are always an enjoyable break in the humdrum life of Kuching, and the Turf Club is an institution that deserves our fullest support. ‘Race Week' officially started, with the arrival in Kuching on April 29th of the Second Division contingent consisting of Messrs. P. M. Adams, W. P. N. L. Ditmas, N. Mace and J. C. H. Barcroft. H.H.M.Y. Maimuna arrived with the main body of visitors on the 30th. These were as follows : From the Fourth Division: Mr. H. E. Cutfield, Mr. W. S. B. Buck, Mr. and Mrs. J. O. Gilbert, and Mr. and Mrs. D. L. Leach; From the Third Division: Messrs. A. Macpherson, J. C. B. Fisher, B. Summers, D. R. Lascelles, A. R. Snelus, F. L. Crosslev, S. G. Hansom, and Mr. and Mrs. Field. " Mr. and Mrs. L. K. Morse arrived from Bau on the same day. The last visitor to arrive was Mr. J. B. Archer, who took a passage from Miri in the R.A.F. flying-boat which reached Kuching on May 1st. Most of the outstation visitors left Kuching by the Maimuna on May 8th, but certain officers stayed on for a few days in order to attend meetings of the Committee of Adminis¬ tration. party were entertained to dinner at Raffles Hotel by His Highness the Sultan of Johore. On the following day His Highness and Dayang Valerie lunched with Air Commodore and Mrs. Smith at the Seletar Air Base; among those present were His Highness the Sultan of Perak and His Excellency Major-General W. G. S. Dobbie, G.O.C., Malaya. In the evening a most enjoyable Chinese dinner for His Highness and party was given at the Great World by Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang, who travelled to Singapore on business by the same boat as His Highness the Rajah. We understand that Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang intends to spend about a month in Singapore. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie sailed for Europe by the Rajputana on May 22nd. They were seen off by a number of Singapore friends, and a squadron of R.A.F. plane's acted as an escort, for the ship as she left the harbour. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie expect to return to Sarawak in October, Her Highness the Rance following two or three months later. We wish them a pleasant voyage and an enjoyable stay in England. The Spring Meeting of the Sarawak Turf Club was held on May 2nd and 4th, and provided two very good days’ racing, a full account of which will be found under ‘First Division News. The popularity of the meeting was reflected by the large crowds that attended, and by the size of the prizes in the cash sweeps. The races are always an enjoyable break in the humdrum life of Kuching, and the Turf Club is an institution that deserves our fullest support. ‘Race Week' officially started, with the arrival in Kuching on April 29th of the Second Division contingent consisting of Messrs. P. M. Adams, W. P. N. L. Ditmas, N. Mace and J. C. H. Barcroft. H.H.M.Y. Maimuna arrived with the main body of visitors on the 30th. These were as follows : From the Fourth Division: Mr. H. E. Cutfield, Mr. W. S. B. Buck, Mr. and Mrs. J. O. Gilbert, and Mr. and Mrs. D. L. Leach; From the Third Division: Messrs. A. Macpherson, J. C. B. Fisher, B. Summers, D. R. Lascelles, A. R. Snelus, F. L. Crosslev, S. G. Hansom, and Mr. and Mrs. Field. " Mr. and Mrs. L. K. Morse arrived from Bau on the same day. The last visitor to arrive was Mr. J. B. Archer, who took a passage from Miri in the R.A.F. flying-boat which reached Kuching on May 1st. Most of the outstation visitors left Kuching by the Maimuna on May 8th, but certain officers stayed on for a few days in order to attend meetings of the Committee of Adminis¬ tration. A very cheery party was given at the Kuching Residency on the evening of May 2nd, Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Pollard being 'at home' to most of the European population of the town. The dance lived up to the best Race Week traditions, and carried on until the small hours, when it broke up into a number of subsidiary parties, also in accordance with established custom. The survivors, when they met next morning in the Club, were unanimous regarding the excellent evening that they had spent. On May 4th, a most enjoyable dance was given at Astana, His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie receiving about seventy guests. The Astana dance during Race Week is always a most popular function, and this one was no exception to the rule. The dance went with a swing from the start, and when the guests left shortly after midnight they were tired but happy. Our thanks are due to His Highness and Dayang Valerie for a delightful evening. H.I.J.M.S. Yuubari, a flotilla leader of the Imperial Japanese Navy, arrived at Tanjong Po on May 14th, her arrival coinciding with the second day of the races. An account of her visit will be found elsewhere in this issue. Mr. R. E. Le Sueur, District Officer, Sibu, who was admitted to the General Hospital suffering from typhoid fever on April 22nd, was discharged on May 14th. Mr. Le Sueur sailed by the Vyner Brooke on May 17th on a month's convalescent leave, and is at present staying at Fraser’s Hill. Another casualty in the Government Service during the month was Mr. D. C. White, District Officer. Kalaka, who was admitted to the General Hospital on May 4th. Mr. Griffin has taken over the Kalaka district temporarily, and Mr. White, who was dis¬ charged from hospital on May 16th, is at present doing duty in the District Office, Kuching. The R. A. F. flying-boat which brought His Highness the Tuan Muda to Kuching left Pending on May 13th on a tour of inspection of flying-boat moorings. In the course of this tour she visited Sibu and Miri, returning to Kuching on May 14th, and leaving for Singa¬ pore the following day. The flying-boat, which was piloted by Wing Commander C. L. Scott and Flight Lieutenant L. H. Stewart, carried as passengers Messrs. C. E. O. Wood and C. E. Bailey of the Civil Engineering Department of the Air Ministry, and Mr. R. E. Edwards, of the Public Works Department. These gentlemen stayed on for a few days at Miri and inspected landing-ground sites both at that station and Bintulu, returning to Kuching by H.H.M.Y. Maimuna. The Rev. Father T. F. Delaney, of the Roman Catholic Mission, returned from home leave on May 4th, and proceeded to Sibu a few days later. Kuching’s official rugby season came to a close during Race Week, when a most enjoy¬ able game was played in which a number of outstation officers took part. We would like to take this opportunity of expressing the gratitude of all players and sunporters of the game to Mr. K. L. Whale, without whose un¬ flagging enthusiasm and energy the game would never have been carried on the way it was. We can only express the hope that the seed he has so laboriously planted has not fallen on stony ground. We print under Third Division News' the programme of an exhibition of local arts and crafts, poultry, flowers, fruit, and veget¬ ables, that is to be held at Mukah on His Highness the Rajah's birthday. We wish all success to this exhibition, which is being organised by the District Officer. Mr. J. G. Anderson; it is an original idea, and should do much to stimulate the interest of the large Melanau population in local produce Mrs. E. Banks returned from a trip to Japan by the Vyner Brooke on May lath We welcome to Sarawak the Rev. F. H. May¬ cock, who arrived by the same vessel to join the S.P.G. Mission. We understand that the Rev. Maycock will be stationed at Belong. H.M.S. Herald, sometimes known as ‘The Sarawak Flagship,’ arrived at Pending on the evening of Thursday, May 28th, having had an extremely rough passage from Singa¬ pore, the weather encountered being most unusual for this time of the year. The Herald is commanded by Commander N. A. C. Hardy, R.N., whom we welcome hack to Sarawak after an absence of about four years. Commander Hardy was in command of the Herald when she was working in Sarawak waters in 1931 and 1932. H.M.S. Herald left Pending at dawn on June 1st for the Rejang. A survey party under Lieutenant R. T. Tripp is being landed at Sarikei, and will remain at that station for about two months H.M.S. Herald is ex¬ pected to call again at Pending towards the end of July. It is pleasant to see the familiar shape of the Herald once again in Sarawak waters, and we are glad to hear that we shall probably be seeing a good deal of her in the course of the next eighteen mouths. A visitor to Kuching during May was Pastor V. E. Hendershot, M.A., of the Seventh Day Adventist Mission. Although stationed in Penang, Pastor Hendershot is continuing his oversight of the mission's interests in the State temporarily. He left by the Katong on May 28th, and expects to return for another visit within four months. On the afternoon oil May 15th, a garden party was held at Astana which was attended by a large number of guests of all communi¬ ties, who thus were able to welcome His Highness the Tuan Muda personally, and bid farewell to His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie. The weather, fortunately, was fine, and the party was most enjoyable. A programme of music was rendered by the Kuching Military Band, and the improvement in the playing due to the new instruments so kindly presented to the band by His Highness the Rajah a short while ago was noticeable. The person who left two books named Japan Advance and The White Paternoster in the guardroom at Pengkalan Batu may have them on application to the Kuching Police Station. Birthday of His Majesty King Edward VIII. The following Circular despatch has been received from the Secretary of State for the Colonies through His Excellency the British Agent for Sarawak, and is published for general information :— "DOWNING STREET, 3rd April, 1936. "SIR, I have the honour to inform you that His Majesty’s Birthday will be celebrated both at home and abroad on the 23rd of June next, unless in any particular case that date is not convenient. 2. If. for any reason, it is desired that the celebration should he held on any other day than the 23rd June, the date selected should be sub¬ mitted for my approval 3, The fact that His Majesty's Birthday falls within the period of Court Mourning need not interfere with any arrangements usually made to celebrate that occasion. I have the honour to be. Sir, Your most obedient, humble servant, (Signed) J. H. THOMAS.” Chartered Bank. EIGHTY-8EC0ND ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING. We print below extracts from the address of Sir William Foot Mitchell, who presided at the eighty-second annual general meeting of the Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China in the absence of Mr. Willis, the Chairman of Directors. The meeting was held at the Bank premises, 38 Bishopsgate, London, E.C., on April 1st, 1936. WOBLD TRADE. “You will have gathered from a perusal of the chairmen's speeches at the annual general meetings of the big British banks that the recovery in domestic trade—which during the past year or so has principally revolved round the building trade and its ancillary industries- has been well main¬ tained . “A welcome activity in steel and shipbuilding became apparent towards the end of last year, and this activity should increase in volume in these and their allied industries when the British Govern¬ ment's new rearmament programme is put into full swing. “Due to the many quotas, exchange restrictions, and currency troubles throughout the world, inter¬ national trade, I am sorry to say. has not shared in prosperity to the same extent as in the. domestic arena. The restrictions to which I have referred have, in fact, had the effect of compelling many large consumers, c.g., Germany, Russia, the South American countries, etc., to resort to the primitive method of baiter, with disastrous results to the exchange of goods on the orthodox lines we have been accustomed to during the past sixty years or so. “As was pointed out in the Press the other day, the overseas trade of the United Kingdom for 1935 was £800,000,000 less than in 1929. and a good deal of this tremendous shrinkage must be laid at the door of the numerous restrictions to which I have just called attention. “It must be obvious, therefore, that the British overseas banks and the shipping companies, which depend so largely on international trade, are the worst sufferers from the many obstacles now put in the way of the free movement of goods throughout the world. “The competition for the exchange on the res¬ tricted turnover is keener than ever, and margins are now whittled down to such a fine point that, at the end of I he year when we come to strike a balance, the result is often very disappointing indeed. It says much, therefore, for the acumen and capability of our overseas managers that their operations con¬ tinue to enable your Directors to maintain our present dividend. “The British Government’s declared policy, as you know. is to try and arrive at mutual agreements between the various countries in the world with a view to the revival of international trade, but that they are finding many obstacles in their path goes without saying—the principal one being currency uncertainties the world over. “I regret I can see little hope of a revival in world trade until sanity returns to the Councils of the Nations, and until the artificial bolstering of crops and industries—the production of which would be quite uneconomic without this assistance—gives way to a more rational policy of apportioning the pro¬ duction of goods to the countries which are best suited to produce them. “I am afraid, however, in the present temper of the world, that time is some distance off, but it should be the aim of all of us who are interested in world trade to-day to do everything possible to assist the attainment of the object I have just mentioned. In his speech last year, Mr. Willis dealt very fully with regard to trade in general in the various countries throughout the East, where this Bank is represented, and the reviews received from our Eastern Managers at the end of last year indicate no material change in the situation. I shall, how¬ ever, endeavour to give you a short review of other matters of importance in which the Rank is in¬ terested." “Mr. Willis, in his speech last year, referred to China's currency problems and to the steps taken by the Chinese Government to offset the effect of rising silver prices upon exchange quotations. At the same time, the Government had endeavoured to counteract a serious depiction of the country's monetary and capital resources by imposing an export tax on silver. Illicit export, however, continued on a large scale. Currency scarcity, accentuated by the uncertainty of exchange, caused an abnormal rise in rates of interest, with consequent heavy falls in real estate values and in all investment securities. This in turn affected the stability of the smaller Chinese banks and financial institutions and some failures occurred. "On 3rd November last the Government of China issued a currency decree the main provisions of which were: (1) The nationalisation of all stocks of silver, including those held by banks, and pro¬ hibition of the use of silver as a means of payment. (2) Making the notes of the three Govern¬ ment banks full legal tender. (3) To attain the stability of the exchange level of the Chinese dollar through the Government banks buying and selling foreign exchange in unlimited quantities at certain fixed differences. "Although the sliding scale arrangements in force a year before meant that China's currency had be¬ come detached from silver, a sort of decree nisi, the above pronouncement indicated that not only had China absolutely divorced herself from silver but that she had adopted a managed currency. "For many centuries silver had been a very intimate factor in China's economic structure, although we have the strange anomaly that China is not a producer of that metal. Nevertheless, China had come to look on silver as her standard of value; it had been the medium of settling deficits and surpluses in her overseas trade, and the surplus wealth and the savings of her people had been invested in the metal as a matter of course. "It is naturally not without misgivings that we view this momentous change to a managed currency instigated by her Government. The principal reasons for these misgivings may be briefly summarised: (1)     The Budget remains unbalanced. (2) Customs duties and other Government revenues are declining. (3) The political situation in North China is very unsettled. "The heavy import duties which have been imposed on a variety of commodities have had the effect not only of raising prices to such an extent that consumption has been curtailed, but also of making smuggling more attractive. Government revenue has consequently suffered. "It is, therefore, very necessary for the Govern¬ ment to take steps either to augment their income, which may be difficult, or to effect radical economies in expenditure. "The great essentials for the success of a managed currency are integrity of the Budget and an efficient Currency Board or Reserve Bank which will effectively oppose demands for inflation in any form or disguise. Only thus can complete confidence in a paper currency be fostered and maintained. "A severe fall in the world price of silver would, of course, prejudicially affect the value of the silver reserves held against the note issues and might necessitate a readjustment of exchange parities. That in itself need not, however, adversely affect the scheme. "The present stabilised rate of exchange on a low level has already given a stimulus to the export of China produce, so that China's balance of trade shows a more favourable tendency in recent months. "In view of the close trade relationship between China and Hongkong, it was inevitable that the Hongkong Government should follow China. Silver stocks held by the banks in Hongkong have been taken over by Government and the exchange value of the Hongkong dollar has been allowed to fall in closer approximation to the Chinese dollar. "The Hongkong Government have not yet, however, announced the rate of exchange at which they are prepared to stabilise the local dollar. In order that there may be an alignment between the two currency units, it is only natural that Hong¬ kong should wait for China to give a fixity value to their dollar which savours of permanency.” MALAYA. Rubber. The production of rubber, as yon are all aware, is controlled by an International Committee under a scheme which was started in June, 1934, and which embraces all the principal producing countries. Taking all the many difficulties into consideration, I think it can be said that much good progress has been made towards placing the planting industry on a sound and healthy basis. "The year 1935—the first complete year of con¬ trol—was a rather disappointing one from the producers' point of view, as the average price over the twelve months was only 6d. per lb., the highest price reached being 6 3/4 d., and the lowest 5 1/2 d. Moreover, in order to achieve this price, it was necessary to decrease production by 5 per cent, during each succeeding quarter of the year from 75 per cent, for the first quarter down to 60 per cent, for the last—an average production of 67 1/2 per cent, over the whole year. "These figures will show you why I have referred to last year's results as rather disappointing, but they Will also indicate the disastrous position in which the rubber planting industry as a whole would have remained had no control been exercised. "A much more cheerful note, however, can be discerned when the relative position of supply and demand at the end of last year is examined. Here we find that the recorded stocks of rubber in the world have declined during 1935 by about 100,000 tons, while consumption has been well maintained, and in some quarters notably increased. It is estimated, for example, that America used 40,000 tons more rubber in 1935 than she did in 1934. "Since the beginning of this year the price of rubber has risen to the neigbourhood of 7 1/2 d. per lb., and the prospects for 1936 are much more encouraging.” JAPAN. "Japan's record of recovery and trade expansion since she abandoned the gold standard continued during 1035. Money was cheap, foreign exchanges steady, and exports reached the highest point in her history. Commodity prices continued to rise slowly, but this welcome improvement did not affect raw silk. “Alongside this record of trade expansion and recovery there was a continuance of heavy arma¬ ment expenditure, but the gap in the budget (defence now accounts for 46 per cent, of Japan’s expenditure) was met by domestic loans, which continue to be absorbed without any apparent difficulty, but one begins to wonder when saturation point will be reached. “An increase in the price of raw cotton would, I think, affect Japan more seriously than Lancashire, owing to the greater devaluation of the Yen, but this again would probably be offset by the steady and ample supplies of intelligent labour which Japan industrialists have at hand, and to the lower standard of living of the workers. The con¬ tinued depression on the land forces a steady flow of labour from the farms to the factories, which prevents wages from rising, and the main food of the workers, which is produced in Japan, is still comparatively cheap. “In connection with these remarks about Japan, 1 cannot pass on without a word about the very unfortunate affair which occurred at the end of February, resulting in the assassination of several of Japan’s most experienced statesmen. “As a resident for a number of years in Japan, and the recipient of numerous kindnesses and courtesies from her people, high and low. I deplore this savage attack on constituted authority, which would appear to have been the result of mis¬ guided patriotism on the part of certain youthful elements in military circles. “Many of the culprits, as you know, paid the penalty by sacrificing their lives in accordance with Japanese tradition. A new Cabinet is now in power, and, as far as can be gathered, it is function¬ ing normally and has restored confidence.’’ Shorts. After all, there are shorts and shorts, some of them more than others. And anyway, surely it depends on what is inside them. It’s the filling that counts, as the dentist said. There are times and places for everything, even castor oil; so why not shorts? Nobody now gets up and yowls about the bathing dresses we wear, and in all conscience there’s not much of them. I suppose there was just the same fuss when farthingales and stomachers came in (or went out). I always thought “China Becha” had something to do with Malay divorce. This would appear to have been an error. Crushorridaphobia—the fear of having hairy legs. Does anybody ever read ‘Letters to the Editor’? And if so, are they ever converted by them? Are you going to stop wearing shorts? Quite. So what’s all the fuss about? —(Contributed.) Commercial Aviation News. DUPLICATION AND REDUCTION. It is not surprising that, duplication of the Brisbane-Singapore air service has been found necessary. From the opening of the service on 10th December, 1934, the public were quick to sense the value of this air route through Western Queensland and North Australia to Singapore and London. Moreover, they continued to show their appreciation by extending a patronage that resulted in air mail and passenger loadings far in excess of all anticipa¬ tions and frequently beyond the capacity of the weekly service. That they will not be slow to appraise the proportionately greater value of duplication is certain, for the value of duplication in this case goes far beyond that of doubled frequency. The benefit to be derived from increased Overseas mail facilities by the general business community is patent. Equally so, ns in the case of all transport systems, is the value of increased space for the carriage of passengers and freight. It is only by taking concrete examples, however, that the true value of a duplicated air service can be determined. Duplication will enable residents of Western Queens¬ land towns to travel by air to Brisbane, spend a day and a half in the city and return home, all in the short space of three days. Before the opening of the Brisbane-Singapore air service Darwin’s sole link with the South was a monthly steamer service. The aeroplane brought Darwin within 33 hours travel of Brisbane. Dupli¬ cation will make possible a journey from Brisbane to Darwin, a stay of two days at that Northern centre, and a return trip to Brisbane, all in the remarkably short space of 54 days. Duplication will enable an Australian business man to mark off 12 1/2 days on his calendar and in that time travel to Singapore, spend 5 1/2 days there, and return to Brisbane—less than a fortnight for a journey that takes six weeks by sea! Similarly each town along the Brisbane-Singapore air route will be brought into closer contact with the commercial centres of Australia and the East, as well as with other neighbouring towns. The benefits of duplication, however, will not be confined to increased mail, passenger and freight facilities. Appreciable reductions in fares and freight rates, as announced by Qantas Empire Air¬ ways to conic into effect with the commencement of the twice a week services on 15th May, will bring the cost of air transport on the Brisbane- Singapore-London route to a price level more than comparable with surface transport. In association with Imperial Airways the through fare from Australia to London has been reduced from £244 to £200. The Brisbane- Singapore fare drops from £80 to £65. On the Australian section the following fares from Brisbane will come into effect with duplication, the former fares being shown in parenthesis :— To Roma £5 (£5/15/-); to Charleville £6/10/- (£7/5/-); to Blackall £9/5/- (£10/5/-; to Longreach £10/10/- (£11/15/-) to Winton £12 (£13/10/-); to Cloncurry £15 (£17); to Mt. Isa £16/10/- (£18/10/-); to Camooweal £18 (£20/10/-); to Brunette Downs £23/10/- (£26/15/-); to Newcastle Waters £26 (£32); to Daly Waters £28 (£34); to Darwin £30 (£40). Duplication in the case of the Brisbane-Singapore air service means an increase with a decrease—an increase with a decrease of cost. Surely an ideal combination ! Japanese Cruiser in Sarawak Waters. VISIT OF H.LJ.M.S. YUUBARI. H.I.J.M.S. Yuubari, a Second-Class cruiser of the Imperial Japanese Navy, arrived at Tanjong Po on the morning of May 4th, 1936. On board were Rear-Admiral B. Hosogaya and a number of civilian officials, including Mr. S. Yosano from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Tokio. The Yuubari, which was on a cruise of the Malayan Archipelago, had already visited Saigon and Bangkok and was on her way to Pontianak. Band- jermasin and Sourabaya. This vessel, though designated as a Second-Class cruiser, is actually employcd on Flotilla Leader duties, and is based on Formosa. The Yuubari was met on the morning of May 4th by Mr. N. E. Hughes, A.D.C. to His Highness the Rajah, and Mr. K. Kurahara. the Manager of Messrs. Nissa Shokai, Ltd., but owing to the fact that the arrival of the Yuubari coincided with the second day of the races, the official programme was postponed until May 5th. The length of the Yuubari prevented her from coming up to Pending, and she was therefore compelled to remain at Tanjong Po. A number of officers and civilian officials, however, came up to Kuching by the Betty on the evening of the 4th. H.H.M.Y. Maimuna left before dawn on May 5th to bring Admiral Hosogaya and his officers to Kuching, and the official landing took place at noon. As the Maimuna passed Fort Margherita a salute of twenty-one guns was fired from the Fort battery; ns soon as she anchored oil Astana steps she was boarded by Mr. W. F. Lick, Acting Government Secretary, and Mr. H. M. Calvert, Acting Treasurer, and all the officers then landed, the Siamese State barge, which was manned by a crew of Malays in national costume, being used for this purpose. When the Admiral reached the top of the steps the General Salute was sounded, and the Constabulary guard of honour, which was drawn up on Astana lawn, presented arms. The Admiral inspected the guard and was then met in the Astana porch by His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie. Members of the Committee of Administration and Council Negri, together with the heads of the local Japanese community, were waiting on the Astana verandah, and were introduced to the Admiral. Refreshments were handed round, and His Highness the Rajah welcomed Admiral Hoso¬ gaya and his officers to Sarawak, and proposed the toast of the Imperial Japanese Navy. At the con¬ clusion of the reception, Admiral Hosogaya, Lieutenant 8. Yamakawa (his Flag Lieutenant), and Messrs. Kurahara and Suenaga remained to luncheon; the remaining guests dispersed. In view of the fact that no accommodation was avail¬ able on shore owing to the presence in Kuching of outstation visitors for the races, His Highness the Rajah placed H.H.M.Y. Maimuna at the disposal of the officers of the Yuubari for the period of their stay in Kuching. In the evening a dinner for Admiral Hosogaya and his officers was given at Astana, the heads of the local Japanese community being present. After dinner His Highness the Rajah proposed the toast of ‘His Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Japan.’ to which Admiral Hosogaya replied with ‘His Highness the Rajah.’ Dinner was followed by a programme of Kayan and Dayak dancing, which took place on Astana lawn and which was greatly appreciated by the visitors. On the con¬ clusion of the dancing some Kayans handed the Admiral a parting drink to the accompaniment of the Kayan drinking song, which was rendered with great gusto. His Highness the Rajah then pre¬ sented the Admiral with a beautiful Kayan parang Hang, and the officers returned to the Maimuna to the accompaniment of a final manjong from the assembled Dayaks. On the evening of May 5th Messrs. Nissa Shokai, Ltd., gave a most enjoyable dinner to the Japanese officers at the Rest House. Members of all communities were invited to this dinner, which was a great success. Speeches were made in Japanese by Mr. Kurahara and Admiral Hosogaya, and in English by Mr. Khan Ah Chong and Mr. W. F. Dick. The latter, replying to the toast of 'the guests.' said a few words recalling the tradi¬ tional friendship between Japan and Great Britain; he expressed the pleasure of all communities in Sarawak nt the visit of the Yuubari. which was the first Japanese warship to visit Sarawak since the war, and concluded by hoping that this visit would soon be repeated. The gathering then broke up. On May 7th Hits Highness the Rajah, Dayang Valerie. and a party of about twelve, which included representatives of the local Japanese community, were entertained to luncheon on board the Yuubari by Admiral Hosogaya. This luncheon party, which was a most cheerful affair, was much enjoyed by all present, and resulted in the European guests learning at least one word of Japanese, namely “Kanpai,’’ which is apparently the Japanese equivalent of “No heel-taps.’’ Before leaving the ship presentations were made to His Highness the Rajah, Dayang Valerie, and Mrs. J. O. Gilbert, who was one of the party, and the guests departed amid a salvo of farewells. No description of the luncheon would he complete without some mention of Contain Yamamoto, the Yuubari'8 Captain, who contributed greatly towards the success of the party and did much to add to the entertainment of the guests. When the Maimuna, by which the guests had travelled down to Tanjong Po. returned to Kuching, everyone was agreed that a delightful day had been spent, and all joined in hoping that the Yuubari would be able to visit Sarawak again. The following telegrams were exchanged between the Maimuna and the Yuubari :— From Admiral Hosogaya to His Highness the Rajah : "On leaving the beautiful country of His Highness I must ask him to accept the expression of my most sincere thanks" From His Highness the Rajah to Admiral Hosogaya : "Your visit greatly appreciated wo all enjoyed your company and hope you may be able to visit us again fullstop Be«t wishes for a pleasant voyage very many thanks far your charming hospitality Sayonara" and the following telegram was despatched as a final send-off by the remaining members of the party :— "Captain Yamamoto, warship Yuubari Kanpai! Sarawak Officers.” Fashionable Chinese Wedding. DAUGHTER OF MR. TAN SUM GUAN MARRIED. The marriage of Miss Tan Choon Kee, only daughter of Mr. Tan Sum Guan, to Mr. Then Mian Fob of the Sarawak Steamship Co., Ltd., took place at the residence of Mr. Tan Sum Guan on Wednesday, 27th May. Among those present to witness the wedding were Dayang Anne and some European ladies. Mr. Tan Sum Gunn in a short speech thanked the guests for gracing the function with their presence, and mentioned the fact that Chinese marriages in the reformed style are much more simple and convenient to everybody concerned, and that this was the reason why he had adopted the new style in preference. Dayang Anne proposed the health of the bride and bridegroom, which was drunk by all present. An "At Home" was after¬ wards held at which a few hundred friends of all races were present, making the occasion a great success. A dinner was given by Mr. Tan Sum Guan on 30th May at his residence, "The Terrace." His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne being the guests of honour. Mr. Tan Sum Guan expressed his most sincere thanks to His Highness and all the guests for the great honour they had done him by their presence, and said lie could not find suitable words to express his thankfulness. He particularly thanked Dayang Anne and the other ladies who came to his house tn witness the wedding. He believed that a Chinese marriage in the reformed style was not so interesting to the European ladies as one that was formerly held in the old-fashioned way; he hoped, however that they had enjoyed what they had seen. He then proposed the health of Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee, and following that the health of His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne. Both toasts were drunk with great enthusiasm. His Highness the Tuan Muda, while thanking the host for his invitation, referred to t he valuable services which Mr. Tan Sum Guan and his uncle. Mr. Ong Tiang Swee, C.S.S., had both rendered the country, and said that tliew services were deeply appreciated by Government. He then proposed the toasts of the host and the bride and bridegroom, and gave his best wishes to the newly-married couple for their future happiness, long life and prosperity. The bridegroom then replied in a few words thanking His Highness for the kind words so touchingly expressed.—(Contributed.) White Hermit of the Jungle. The following cutting from the London Daily Sketch has reached us from British North Borneo:— "Daily Sketch" Correspondent. "In the wilds of a Borneo jungle a London man lives as a hermit. He has cost civilisation behind him for ever. News of the man. a Mr. Summers, who states that he was formerly a scenic artist at the Drury Lane Theatre, London, comes from Mr. E. C. Clark, an expert on tropical timber, who is in the jungles of Borneo. "One morning." Mr. Clark related to the Daily Sketch, "I saw a native prow being paddled up the river. In the fragile boat, that was packed to the top with household goods, sat a white man. "Coming ashore the man presented an amazing sight. His hair hung to his waist, while his beard came to his knees. "He told me that he had grown tired of civili¬ sation and had made up his mind to leave it for ever.” Despite Mr. Clark's efforts to dissuade him Summers, who was about 58 set off alone into the dense forest. Seen Again. Some months later, when Mr. Clark was on a trek accompanied by a party of native bearers, in a remote part he saw a tiny shack built on the banks of a turbulent river. On the shore stood an old, white-bearded man casting a line into the water. It was the ex-scene painter. Mr. Clark did not visit him, but left the man to his self-imposed isolation and to the secret that had driven him from civilisation. Mr. Clark attributes his safety among the head¬ hunting Dyaks of Borneo to "going native" by participating in tribal ceremonies." Next time the brass-hats of the Kuching Amateur Dramatic Society want any scenery painted, they have only to send an expedition to the interior to drag this King Beaver out of his jungle fastness. If unwilling to assist, he might be tempted by an offer to let him participate in the tribal ceremonies that sometimes take place at the Sarawak Club late on Saturday nights.  First Division News. APRIL. Forty-eight civil and the same number of criminal cases came before the Kuching Courts during April. Of the latter, twenty-nine were for breaches of Municipal by-laws. The sentence of death passed upon Mahidi bin Marawin for the murder of his father, Mara win bin Ludang, was carried out on April 9th. Mr. A. F. R. Griffin left in the Lucile on 26tb to patrol the coast for rubber smugglers, and was still away at the end of the month. He also visited the Land Dayaks in the Skrak area to inform the people that K.O.K. James had resigned, and that they were now directly under the control of the District Officer. Kuching. James was elected T.K. 8krak. Mr. R. G. Aikman, Rubber Census Officer, and Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, Acting District Officer, Kuching, arrived in the Sambas Onderafdeeling of the Residency of Dutch Western Borneo from Lundu on April 16th. Every assistance was afforded them by the Gezaghebbcr van Sambas. Mynheer Ansingh. whose hospitability was respon¬ sible for the very pleasant nature of the visit. An inquest was held at Bau on the body of Poh Thai (male), Foochow, who was found dead in the Ban Dispensary bathroom; a verdict of suicide by strangulation was returned. No serious crime was recorded in the Bau Dis¬ trict during April. Reports of offences under the Rubber Restriction Orders, however, are received almost daily hour hundred and thirty-three persons were Heated at Bau Government Dispensary during the month, and eighty-two N.A.B. injections were given. • The Dresser-in-Charge paid a visit to the Singghi kampongs during the month. He reports the kampongs as being fairly clean, and the general health satisfactory. A total of forty six eases were treated there, the majority free. As a result of the survey made by Abang Haji Adenau. it was found that the Senah Dayaks had no ground on which to base their claim that Netherlands Indian Dayaks were encroaching on their farming land. Dalian Rubber Estates harvested 25,201 lbs. of dry rubber during April. Rainfall at Bau was 7.43 inches, and at Dahan 12.43 inches. The new car park at Bau was completed at the end of the month, and will be put into use when the necessary by-laws are sanctioned by His High¬ ness the Rajah. Continual rain interfered with public works generally, and with road work in particular. Bidi road, though, is improving greatly. Repairs to Tondong road were put in hand towards the end of the month. The following table gives the individual output of gold from the various mines for April, 1936 :— The District Officer, Serian and Samarahan, reports that on April 18th a Chinese named Chai Kui was arrested at Tebeduk for selling charms to the Dayaks of Kampong Entebuh, and for imperso¬ nating a Government servant. During the month T.R. Mangki of Merit applied to move from his present place to N. Mrakai on the Gedong river. His application was approved since Merit is a terrible place to get at in the swamps between the Gedong and Simunjan rivers, and has not been visited for seven years. T.R. Gimang of Ensebang asked permission to move to the true right-hand bank of the Ensebang river opposite the Balai Ringin protected forest, and his application was also approved as his present situation is bad, being far away from any running stream. Tn the dry season their bathing pond becomes quite dry. The harvested has been gathered in the Sadong District and on the whole has been a success, but in the ulu Simunjan Kiri the ravages of rats have destroyed a greater part bf the crop. The Native Officer’s quarters at Tebekang and the old padi store at Simunjan were dismantled during April, and any serviceable timbers shipped to Serian to be used for the Native Officer's house. The Serian new bazaar is nearing completion. Mr. E. H. Elam, District Officer, Serian and Samarahan, submits the following report on a visit to the ulus of the Simunjan and Gedong rivers :— I visited the ulu Simunjan and the ulu Gedong with Native Officer Abang Dan, from April 2.3rd to May 4th. All houses visited, and in each 1 informed the inhabitants of the new tuba-fishing regulations, the rubber tapping holiday, the new regulations about only tapping in the forenoon; I also told them that the Dresser from Serian would be in Simunjan even¬ month at the full moon, and would stay there for eight days. "The inhabitants of the left-hand branch of the Simunjan, who are Sebuyau-Balan people and more civilized than the right-hand branch, seem restless. They are continually having quarrels amongst themselves, and they try to break up into small houses of four or five doors. The people in the right-hand branch are Undup- Bala, and seem far more contented although the restriction on the sale of buckshot and the regulations about having to return the empty cartridge-cases seem to irritate them consider¬ ably. I understand, however, that they circum¬ vent the regulations by buying No. 4 shot, opening up the cartridges, and substituting larger home-made pellets. "At Sabal Kruin T.K. Ngumbang was told to (Hear the boundary (as settled by Government last November) between the First and Second Divisions in conjunction with T.R. Sli of Ulu Lingga, preparatory to demarcation in June. The Dayaks of Sabal complained al>out Chinese and Malays who are working timber there felling trees near the river which later fall into the stream and block it up. "I arrived at the ulu Gedong on May 1st, and understand from the Melikins that ex-Sergeant- Major Lallak has been examining land in thc Melikin country and is going to apply later to be allowed to farm there. His application should be firmly refused as (1) Sea Dayaks are not allowed across the Ensebang river; (2) he wants to farm in an area which is stocked with very good timber; (3) owing to the new Protected Forest at Balai Ringin. farming in this area must he forbidden otherwise the Melikins, Chinese and Malays will have a legitimate com¬ plaint that there is no timber left outside the Protected Forest. Already the Melikins are complaining that the Malays and Chinese are using up all the belian in the S. Ansabang, and shortly there will be none left outside the Protected Forest." The Native Officer, Lundu, reports that the general health of the station was fairly satisfactory Dresser-in-Charge Mohd. Sn’ut arrived on March 17th, and left for Kuching on April 4th. During April five persons were dealt with at Lundu for offences under Orders R—3 and R—4 (Rubber Restriction). Rugby. RACE WEEK GAME. On Tuesday, 5th May, the Kuching season came to a close with a game on the Police Padang in which a number of outstation officer's took part. It proved probably the best and fastest game of the season, and was probably enjoyed by a fair number of spectators. The sides proved very evenly matched, and the result, a win for the Colours by 3—nil, was probably the fairest result that could have happened. Noakes' try was a well-taken effort, and he showed a glimpse of his old New Zealand form in the way he went for the line. Late in the game Whites got a chance to draw level when they were awarded a penalty in a fairly easy position, but kicking a greasy rugger ball with a sodden "gym” shoe is not an easy proposition and the attempt failed. There was a lot of open play and running by the backs and, amongst the Asiatics, Saleh and Lian Seng showed good form. Whale brought off some good runs and was unlucky not to score after one fine individual burst. Amongst the forwards Gilbert was outstanding and played with great gusto right to the final whistle. Most of the others seemed to find the pace a bit hot for them, but the scrumming was maintained at a higher standard than in any other game so far, parti¬ cularly by the Whites forwards under the able leadership of A. G. Taylor. Rain before the game and at half time made the ball very greasy, and many passing runs broke down in consequence. The Asiatics almost all showed a distinct improvement in their play, but they must curb a tendency to pass anywhere with¬ out looking round, when they are challenged. Once they have mastered the art of accurate passing the standard of play should improve con¬ siderably. Mr. Kitto handled the game very well, keeping things going with the minimum of fuss or whistling. The teams were as follows :— Sarawak Turf Club Spring Meeting 1936. RESULTS. FIRST DAY.. Saturday, 2nd May, 1936. RACE 1 —2.30 p.m. THE TUAN MUDA’S CUP. 6 furlongs. Alsoo ran .—Silver Blaze 9.0, Flying Fox 8.7, Bintang 9.0 and White Label 8.7. White Label was left at the post and though he made up a lot of ground, he had no chance of reach¬ ing the leaders. Happy Boy was quickly in the lead and surprised many people by staying the full dis¬ tance to win by four lengths from Burong Gruda, who just kept Kijang out of second place by half a length. The rest of the field were bunched some way behind. 4 lengths, 1/2 length. Time—1 minute 33 l/5th seconds. (Record). Tote: $4.90. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 1296, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 1042, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 217, Starters $40 each Tickets Nos. 1039, 736, 406 and 1301. Selling lotteries : 1st and 2nd prizes $50 to win $272.70. .4 too ran :—Searchlight 8.12, Chairman 10.8. Bunga Intan 7.7. Warpath 8.2, Eaqle 8.2 and Akal 8.12. Manis as expected ran a good race, the distance being just too much for Blue Bird, who finished a close second with Jubilee, who prefers a longer dis¬ tance, a length and a half away. 1 length. 1 1/2 lengths. Time—1 minute 18 3/5th seconds. Tote : $7.30. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 988, 2nd prize. $320 Ticket No. 573, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 739, Starters $26.60 each Tickets Nos. 1564, 582, 617, 434, 1233 and 999. Selling Lotteries : 1st prize $30 to win $202.32. 2nd prize $51 to win 50.58. RACE 3.—3.30 p.m. THE DATUS’ STAKES. 6 furlongs. DIVISION III. . Tarzan ... 8.6 Mr. Phillip Soh Fn ... Medin Also ran :—Burong l.aut 8.4, Adil II 10.0, Rex 10.0, Nightingale 8.7. Jorrocks 8.6 and Lumadin 9.4. This race provided a perfect start and a thrilling finish. King Kong getting the better of Jackson by a neck with Tarzan half a length behind. It was anybody’s race until the last furlong. Neck, 1/2 length. Time—1 minute 36 3/5th seconds. Tote: $2.60. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 1453, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 735, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 1024. Starters $26.60 each Tickets Nos. 511, 597. 1465, 1194. 1464 and 549. Selling Lotteries : 1st prize $53 to win $214.56. 2nd prize $22 to win $ 53.64, RACE 4.—4.0 p.m. THE R.C.L. STAKES. 3 furlongs. Also ran : -Burong Gruda 9.7. Bintang 9.3 This time White Label got away with the leaders, but the distance was too short for him to allow his best and he finished third to Happy Boy and Sintak Bulan, who were separated by one and a half lengths. l 1/2 lengths, 1 1/2 lengths. Time—44 eeconds. Tote : $1.90. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 1202, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 148. 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 820, Starters $80 each Ticket Nos. 432 and 428. RACE 5.—4.80 p.m. THE MATANG STAKES. 4 furlongs. DIVISION II. Also ran —Searchlight 8.7. Mickey Mouse. 8.12, Bunga Intan 7.10 and Warpath 8.4. This provided a spectacular finish, the judge being unable to separate Blue Bird and Manis. Jubilee, was third one length away. 1 length. Time—1 minute 1 l/5th seconds. Tote : $1 Manis 90 cents Blue Bird. Cash Sweep : 1st prize (2) $414.90 each Tickets Nos. 625 and 1262, 3rd prize $138.30 Ticket No. 1555. Starters $34.50 each Tickets NOS. 1575, 346, 1564 and 206. RACE 6.—5.0 p.m. THE PENDING STAKES. 3 furlongs. DIVISION III. Also ran :—Tarzan 8.7, Adil II 10.0, Suka 10.0, Plandok 10.0, Bintang Tiga 10.0, Moonshine Jr. 10.0, Rhubarb 9.4 and Burong Lout 8.4}. Another good race in which Nightingale sprang a surprise by beating Jackson and King Kong. 1/2 length, 1/2 length. / Time—46 seconds. Tote: $27.60. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $407.20 Ticket No. 1039, 2nd prize $203.60 Ticket No. 934, 3rd prize $101.80 Ticket No. 1342, Starters $12.70 each Tickets Nos. 1369. 422, 111, 308, 745 , 399, 840 and 378. RACE 7.—5.30 p.m. THE RANEE'S CUP. 1 mile. Also ran :—Chairman 8.3, Flying Fox 8.4. Flying Fox ran a disappointing race but Jubilee, Kijang and Silver Blaze fought out the finish, the former just getting home by half a length with one length between second and third. 1 length, 1 length. Time—2 minutes 9 3/5th seconds. Tote : $7.40. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $412 Ticket No. 804 , 2nd prize $206 Ticket No. 117, 3rd prize $103 Ticket No. 318, Starters $51.50 each Tickets Nos. 108 and 506. SECOND DAY. Monday, 4th May, 1936. Race  1.—2.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STEAMSHIP Co's STAKES. 5 furlongs. Also ran :—Kijang 10.7, Bintang 8.10, Flying Fox 8.3 and White Label 8.5. Happy Boy showed his superiority over the short distance winning by four lengths from Silver Blaze, who in turn beat Burong Gruda by a neck. 4 lengths. Neck. Time—1 minute 15 4/5th seconds (Record). Tote: $2.10. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 712, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 1516. 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 817, Starters $40 each Tickets Nos. 1478, 517, 1152 and 167. Race 2—3.0 p.m. THE SIME DARBY STAKES. 6 furlongs. Also ran  :—Searchlight 8.10, Warpath  7.10 and Akal 8.6. Jubilee was unable to concede a stone to Mania over the distance and was beaten by one length. Chairman filling third place. 1 length, 1/2 length. Time—1 minute 37 4/5th seconds. Tote: $1.60. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 1405, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 891, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 1037, Starters $53.30 each Tickets NOS. 106,161 and 727. I’ Race 3—3.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STAKES. 5 furlongs. A/so ran :—Rex 9.4, Tarzan 8.10$, Jorrocks 7.13, Burong Laut 8.7 1/2, Moonshine Jr. 9.4 and Adil II 9.0. Jackson and King Kong again fought out the finish, the former gaining the verdict by a length with Nightingale third, another length away. 1 length, 1 length. Time—1 minute 19 1 /5th seconds. Tote: $I.30. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 1363, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 583, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 1152, Starters $26.60 each Tickets Nos. 762, 414, 1172, 616, 1570 and 1368. ’ Race 4.—4.0 p.m. THE JUBILEE STAKES. 4 furlongs. Also ran :—White Label 8.4, Silver Blaze 9.5. Happy Boy was unable to concede 2 stones 8 lbs. to Sintak Bulan, who won easily by five lengths, Bintang being a close third. 5 lengths, neck. Time—58 l/5th seconds. (Record). Tote: $1.70. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 791, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 1331, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 1280, Starters $80 each Tickets Nos. 404 and 285. RACE 5.—4.30 p.m. THE STATES SPRINT. 3 furlongs. Also ran :—Warpath 8.0, Bunga Intan 7.13 1/2 An easy win for Blue Bird by five lengths from Manis, who finished three lengths ahead of Mickey Mouse. 5 lengths, 3 lengths. Time—45 seconds. Tote : $1.50. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $640 Ticket No. 1088, 2nd prize $320 Ticket No. 496, 3rd prize $160 Ticket No. 1037, Starters $80 each Tickets Nos. 1138 and 897. RACE 6.—5.0 p.m. THE TURF CLUB STAKES. 4 furlongs. Also ran:—Tarzan  8.5, Adil II 9.0,  Suka 9.0, Bintang Tiga 9.0, Rhubarb 8.6, Jackson 8.13, Burong Laut. 8.4$, Jorroeks 7.7 and Plandok 9.7. An excellent race in which Moonshine Junior surprised everyone including his owner by winning by a head from Nightingale with King Kong a neck away. Head, neck. Time—1 minute 2 seconds. Tote : $39. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $600 Ticket No. 1618, 2nd prize $300 Ticket No. 1043, 3rd prize $150 Ticket No. 657. Starters $16.60 each Tickets Nos. 1123, 427. 540. 644, 887, 879, 1075, 1181 and 931. Race 7.—5.30 p.m. THE RAJAH’S CUP. R.C. (about 1 1/3 Miles) Also ran :—Chairman 8.0 and Kijang 10.10. All got away to a good start and remained bunched most of the way round. Flying Fox and Jubilee had a great fight up the straight, and Damit on Flying Fox is to be congratulated on the way he avoided being knocked into the ditch by Jubilee. He just pulled out in the last stride to win by a short head with Silver Blaze a head away third and the also rans all close up. Jubilee might have won if his jockey had sat still. Head, Neck. Time—2 minutes 51 l/5th seconds. (Record). Tote: $6.60. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $560.80 Ticket No. 1471, 2nd prize $280.40 Ticket No. 255, 3rd prize $140.20 Ticket No. 849, Starters $70.10 each Tickets Nos. 436 and 744. UNLIMITED CASH SWEEP SPRING MEETING, 1936. ARTHUR G. TAYLOR, G. T. M. MITCHELL, Scrutinisers. MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE MEMBERS OF THE SARAWAK TURF CLUB HELD AT THE SARAWAK CLUB ON THE 3RD MAY 1936 AT 11.15 A.M. Present.—Messrs. J. B. Archer (in the Chair), P. M. Adams, G. T. Bates, W. J. Chater, Ong Hap Leong, Chan Qui Chong, W. S. B. Buck, W. F. Dick, Datu Shahbandar, Messrs. W. Har- nack, H. E. Cutfield, B. Summers, Datu Amar, Messrs. N. Mace, W. Philp, G. J. Dickson, R. E. Edwards, Abang Bisunie and Messrs. R. W. Chater, Tan Sum Guan, etc. etc. (1) The Minutes of the previous Annual General Meeting were read by the Secretary (Mr. G. T. Bates) and approved unanimously. (2) The Accounts for the financial year were passed unanimously. (3) Mr. Philp was appointed Auditor—proposed by Mr. P. M. Adams and seconded by Mr. Cutfield. (4) The question of Selling Lotteries was dis¬ cussed and Mr. Bates proposed and Mr. Adams seconded that they should be abolished—passed unanimously. (5) Mr. Buck proposed and Mr. Dickson seconded that the commission on the Sweeps should be reduced to 10%. It was pointed out that the Club was well in funds. A long discussion took place, Mr. Bates remarking that, the Club depended mainly on this commission for its revenue. Mr. Philp said that if the commission was reduced to 10% the Club would not probably pay its way. Mr. Adams proposed and Mr. Ong Hap Leong seconded that the commission be reduced to 15% not 10%. On the vote being taken on Mr. Buck's proposal there were only two supporters—on the vote for the amendment a majority were in favour of 15%. It was therefore decided that 15% should be tried for the corning ratting year. (6) Mr. Sum Guan proposed that a stand be built near the Tote for persons on the slope. He produced a rough plan. The cost, he said, would be about $1,500. Mr. Mace seconded this. There was considerable discussion and it was pointed out that the entry to the Course was free except to the S. T. C. Stand. On the vote being taken this pro¬ posal was defeated by a large majority. (7) Mr. Dick proposed making terraces instead. This was referred back to the Committec. (8) Mr. Dick proposed and Mr. Adams seconded that the Club Committee should meet the Race Course Development Committee with a view to coming to some arrangement regarding the latter's activities. It was pointed out that obstructions might be built which would impede the view of the racing. Considerable discussion ensued and finally on the motion being put to the vote the voting was 13 to 4 in favour of Mr. Dick's proposal. (9) In connection with the above it was men¬ tioned that the Bank had a mortgage on the house on the hill in the centre of the course and it might be good policy to buy this and present it to the Development Fund. In any case nothing definite can be decided now and the Committee, as stated, have been empowered to open negotiations or suggest other arrangements. (10) At this stage the Chairman (Mr. Archer) and Mr. Adams had to leave owing to urgent business elsewhere. (11) The new Committee was than elected and showed no change and was as follows :— Kuching Members :— MINUTES OF COMMITTEE MEETING OF THE SARAWAK TUBE Club HELD AT THE SARAWAK CLUB ON 8TH MAY, 1936 AT 6.80 P.M. Present.—Messrs. J. B. Archer (in the Chair), Wee Kheng Chiang, Datu Shah¬ bandar, Messrs. P. M. Adams, Tan Sum Guan, E. S. Holl, G. T. Bates (Secretary) and Chan Qui Chong. Absent.—Messrs. C. D. Adams, H. B. Crocker and B. J. C. Spurway. (1) Minutes of previous Meeting were read and approved. (2) Classification of Ponies.—Mr. Holl gives his views. He suggests— Discussion took place and various views were put forward. Mr. Holl’s suggestion leaves 8 ponies in Division I. 13 in Division II and 14 in Division HL Mr. Qui Chong objects and suggests that Manis and Blue Bird should go up to Division I and gives his reasons. The vote is taken. All but Mr. Qui Chong agree to Mr. Holl’s suggestion. The classification is there¬ fore :— Mr. Chan Qui Chong’s amendment to reconsider Division III classification was defeated—Mr. Chan Qui Chong dissenting. (3) Points arising out of this year’s General Vetting :— (a) Commission on S.T.C. Unlimited Sweep.— ir. Bates suggests that the extra 5% goes to the Larters. Mr. Tan Sum Guan dissents. Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang suggests as an amend¬ ment that if there are only 4 startes, the 3rd and 4th horse should get the same and the balance should go to S.T.C. Later Mr. Woe Kheng Chiang withdraws his amendment. Mr. Bates suggests that if there are only 4 starters, the 4th horse gets 10% and the 3rd horse gets 15%. Mr. Tan Sum Guan proposes that the 4th horse gets 3 prizes. This is later withdrawn. Finally it is unanimously agreed that if there are only 4 starters the 3rd horse gets 15% and the 4th horse 10%. (b) Terraces and Stand.—-Discussion took place and it was agreed that a Sub-Committee of Mr. Bates. Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang and Mr. Chan Qui Chong and the Datu Shahbandar should examine the ground and decide what should be done. (c) Race Course Development Committee.— Discussion took place. It was finally agreed that Mr. Kheng Chiang's proposal should be followed, i.e., that a Sub-Committee be formed to enter into negotiations io purchase the house in the middle of the course at the lowest price subject of course to the decision, of this Com¬ mittee. Sub-Committec to be Messrs. Wee Kheng Chiang. Tan Sum Guan and G. T. Bates. (4) Inner Training Track.—Discussion took place. It was decided that Mr. Qui Chong should go into this subject. (5) Mr. Bates asks /or authority to order more replicas for the Championship Cup. There is only one left. These replicas cost about $30 each. It is agreed that the Secretary should order six more of these. (6) Cash Sweeps.—Mr. Tan Sum Guan suggests that the number of tickets should be increased to 2000 on each race. This was agreed unanimously. (7) Mr. ]’. M. Adams suggests that in Cash Sweeps the Club takes 15% and the owner of the winning horse gets 4% and the second 1%. This was agreed unanimously, i.e. :— (8) Jockeys' Fees.—It was unanimously agreed that the jockeys’ fees should be— (9) Next Meeting.—Suggested that the next meeting be on 26th and 28th September subject to approval of His Highness the Rajah. (10) Jockeys' Names.—Mr. Holl suggests that jockeys' names should be made quite dear. In the last meeting there were several jockeys (including one gentleman) with similar names. The Com¬ mittee suggested that Mr. Bates should go into this. (11) Number Plate for Yassim.—Agreed. One Club Medal play over 9 holes, Winner— K. Cargill 45—8=37 net. Runner-Up-G. T. M. Mitchell 42—3=39 net. Kuching Badminton Association Open Tournaments, 1936. MEN'S SINGLES “A” GRADE. First Round. Chan Mah Kheok vs. Tan Seng Swee; Abg. Bol Hassan bye: Wee Peng Kiat bye; Chen Nyit Joon bye; Matthew Chai bye; Wee Bok Hee bye; Ong Seng Chiang bye; Yeo Cheng Chin bye; Morgan Chai vs. Johari; Chia Bok Gee bye; Lim Ah Lai bye; Wee Ah Chew bye; Mat bye; Chua Teck Hee bye; Dahlan bye; Chan Khiok Hian bye. MEN’S SINGLES “B” GRADE. First Round.—K. Cargill vs. Ong Seng Chong; Wee Ah Huan vs. K. Kitto; F. L. Mansel vs. Abg. Kushairi; F. H. Pollard bye; E. M. Selous vs. Kho Eng Seng; Wee Hian Teck vs. Ong Seng Ek; Abg. Turkey vs. Lee Wah Joo; Gwee Soon Kee bye; Kuek Chin Bee vs. Chai Ah Jap; W’. J. Chater vs. Ng Wan Hong; Chan Peng Lai vs. Ho Tok Kok; Goh Ah Hiong bye; J. G. A. Benson rs. G. J. Chater: James Chai vs. Tan Guan Sin; Wong Kee Lee vs. Yeo Ah Choo; Paul Goh bye. WOMEN’S SINGLES. First Round.—Miss Kong Sui Joon-5 vs. Mrs. Fong Pin Chee scr.; Mrs. Kennedy scr. vs. Miss Tan Sai Hua - 5; Mrs. Kelley scr. vs. Miss I. Fox scr.; Miss Wee Sui Eng-5 bye. MIXED DOUBLES. First Round.—M. Chai aud Miss Kong Sui Joon -2 vs. Morgan Chai and Miss T. Sai Hua-2; Chia Bok Gee and Miss I. Fox +3 bye; F. L. Mansel and Mrs. Pitt Hardacre +8 bye; Lee Way Joo and Mrs. F. Pin Chee +8 bye: Yeo Cheng Chin and Miss Sui Eng - 2 bye; E. M. Selous and Mrs. Pollard +8 bye; K. Kitto and Mrs. Kelley +8 bye ; H. M. Calvert and Mrs. Kennedy +8 bye. First Round.—Ong Seng Chiang and Wee Eng Lee vs. Chan Mah Kheok and Chin Bok Gee; Yeo Cheng Chin and T. Seng 8wee bye; Wee Boo Chiang and C. Khiok Hian bye; Law Hun Chong and Wee Ah Chew bye; Lim Teck Guan and Wee Peng Kiat vs. Abang Bol Hassan and Aini; Mat and Joblie bye; Abang Jajol and Taha bye; Lim Ah Lai and Lan Lip Thong bye. MEN'S DOUBLES "B” GRADE. First Round.--Kiplawi and Aidiwi vs. Sait and Esmon; Tay Guan Sin and V. Lee Soon bye; Ong Seng Chong and T. Tek Kok bye; George Lim and Leslie Fox bye; K. Tiong Chiong and N. Wan Hong bye; Lee Wah Joo and Yeo Ah Choo bye; Sulong and Drahman bye; C. Peng Lai and G. Ah Hiong bye; T. Sin Teck and T. Boo Sook vs. Suleiman and Lee Swee Hock; Chai Ah Jap and Robert Chai bye; Wee Ah Suan and W. Say Thow bye; Gwee Soon Kee and W. Kee Lee bye; F. L. Mansel and F. H. Pollard bye; Abang Amin and Rosli bye; E. M. Selous and K. Kitto bye; Satem and Tomy bye. Tennis. All tennis players will be very pleased to hear that the Committee have listened to our tales of woe with a kindly car, and have authorized the construction of another bitumen court. Also the existing bitumen court is to be given a thin coating of bitumen and sand, after which it should not need further attention for many years to come. The work to the existing court will not take longer than a couple of days, so players will not be incon¬ venienced at all. We also intend to gradually repair the surface of the two earth courts near the Club by improving the drainage, and by top-dressing with sand and lime. Then there will probably be a few pennies over to defray the cost of mending same of the bigger holes in the nets. When these improvements have been completed the Sarawak Club will possess four really good courts, and so we are looking forward to a very successful season. This year it is intended to start the annual Club tournament in July and we hope all tennis players will show an interest and enter for the various events.—(Contributed.) Second Division News. APRIL. Two hundred and eighteen out-patients were treated at the Simanggang Government dispensary during the month, and 147 N.A.B. injections were performed. The District Officer, Simanggang, records with regret the death of Dayang Jerah, widow of Datu Haji Tamin, which occurred on April 24th. A Dayak named Man, and a boy named Em- pading, of Rumah Asin, were drowned in the Batang Lupar on April 21st while transporting padi from their fanning but by boat. It is presumed that they were overtaken by the bore. Man’s body was recovered on the following day. Harvesting is in full swing in the Batang Lupar area. Average crops are reported, but it is too early as yet to form a definite opinion. The Native Officer, Engkilili, reports that on the morning of April 26th a Chinese girl aged 11 named Lee Jun Nyat was the victim of a cowardly attack while selling cakes in the kaki lima of Engkilili bazaar. The assailant, a Chinese named Chong Kui, attacked the girl with an axe, and indicted serious injuries on her head before he was arrested by a policeman, who happened to be close at hand. The dresser came down from Lubok Antu in order to attend to the girl. Several Engkilili pepper planters report that their pepper vines are dying as the result of an apparently incurable disease. Mr. G. R. H. Arundell arrived at Engkilili from Lubok Antu on April 2nd, and left on the 7th, having settled many cases. Visitors to Betong during April included Mr. W. P. N. L. Ditmas, District Officer, Simanggang, and the Bev. Father 0. Philippe, c.n. In spite of further heavy rainfall, reports on the padi harvest throughout the Saribas district are satisfactory in general. It is estimated that 75% of the Saribas Dayaks had finished harvesting by the end of the month. The District Officer, Betong, visited the Padeh on April 7th, and returned to Betong on the 12th. Most of his travelling was overland, and he therefore had an opportunity of inspecting numerous farms, nearly all of which appeared to be very healthy. In general farming land appeared sufficient for the population; rubber cultivation was extensive, the standard of the houses visited was good, and the people seemed contented. Third Division News APRIL. Twenty-five civil and forty-six criminal cases came before the Sibu Courts during April. One case of attempted murder was dealt with at Sibu, and investigations were made into a reported theft of $350 cash from a shophouse in the bazaar. Oil the 29th a Coroner’s inquest was held at Sibu upon the body of a male Chinese child aged 4 years, found drowned at Sungei Merah. A finding of death by misadventure was recorded. The Assistant Superintendent of Lands, accom¬ panied by. Wan Druce, left on 16th for Rajang to accompany Mr. Snelus on a visit to Daro, Matu, Sarikei, and Binatang, returning on the 20th to Sibu. Rejang station was handed over to the Settlement Officer, Mr. T. E. Parker, on April 17th. The Senior Forest Officer completed his tour and left for Kuching on the 9th. During this tour the following stations were visited : Kapit, Kanowit, Sarikei and the Island Trading Company at Sela- lang. At Kapit the Senior Forest Officer took the opportunity of waiting the Pelagus rapids. The trip was made by outboard. He endorsed the opinion of the. Divisional Forest Officer that these rapids are no bar to systematic logging. If the logs were taken over at a collecting station at Pasir Nai (Pala Wong), floating down on the purchasers responsibility, and re-formed at Nanga Pelagus or in the dead water below, natives would assist willingly. It is easy to see how the Pelagus rapids have acquired such a bad reputation with the native. It is the last hazard before jungle produce is safely delivered in the Kapit bazaar, especially so for produce which must be transported by boat, and is not able to look after itself as a log can. Even in the case of logs, however, rather than go to the trouble of breaking his raft above the rapid and re-forming it below them, the native will wait for flood water and float the logs down en masse and take a chance. In this it is difficult to draw the line between adherence to adat and sheer laziness. On the return journey, the site of the old Kapit Fort at Nanga Balleh was examined as a possible sawmill site. Later it was decided that in the event of a large mill being ostbalished in Kapit, a site in Sungei Kapit near the R.C. Mission would be more suitable. A general dis¬ cussion on protection and logging was held with the District Officer, Kapit. At Selalang the 8.F.O. discussed remedies for stopping friction between firewood workers and the Company’s bark collectors in the Sarawak Mang¬ rove reserves. This matter mainly concerned the First Division. The Manager of the Island Trading Company was also asked to co-operate in the collection of data of the yield of mangrove bark per acre by getting his bark workers to work one or two samples areas under departmental super¬ vision, This he agreed to do, although his labour seems casual in the full sense of the work. The 8.F.O. also visited the floating ditch con¬ structed by the licensee working Bukit Lima Forest Reserve. He expressed the opinion that the licensee would have done better to have (in¬ structed a "German" railway which would have operated equally well at a lower constructional cost. There were two inquiries as to the possibility of shipping logs to Singapore. This was brought about by the reduction of freights by the Steam¬ ship Company. Further inquiry, however, brought to light the fact that this reduction did not affect the logs, so the project will probably be shelved again. Piling to foundations of the new Sibu hospital is still in progress. It is expected that piling will be completed at the end of May. The construction of three new Clerk’s quarters in Green Road is in progress, the main frameworks and fixing of belian shingles having been com¬ pleted . Contracts were signed during the month for the re-roofing of the Administration Offices, and for the reconditioning of shophouse No. 28, Black¬ smith Road. A total of eighty-eight patients underwent treat¬ ment in the out-patients department of Sibu hospital. Fifty-three N.A.B. injections and 101 vaccinations were administered. The general health of all communities was good. The District Officer, Sibu, Mr. R. E. Le Sueur, proceeded to Kuching per s.l. Chamois on the 21st, for medical treatment, accompanied by the Divi¬ sional Medical Officer. R.A.F. Flying-boat No. 2 (K.3592) commanded by Squadron Leader K. B. Lloyd, A.F.C., visited Sibu from 24th to 25th, to inspect the new mooring buoys. The other officers were Flight-Lieut. Cole and Pilot Officer H. J. Hobbs. Four Japanese gentlemen connected with Messrs. Nissa Shokai Ltd., visited Sibu during the month in order to study local agricultural conditions; later, they proceeded to Kanowit accompanied by Ong Kee Hui, Agricultural Officer. S.S. Kampar sustained slight damage on the 20th in coming alongside the Sibu concrete wharf, the belian fendering and cantilever beam of which were cracked. Only one criminal case of any importance came before the Kapit Courts during April, Chiew Chin Cha, a Foochow hawker, being sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment for cheating by selling medicine and charms to Katibas Dayaks. The Kapit Dresser accompanied the District Officer up the Merirai and Balleh during the month, and all children were vaccinated. The children up the Gat were vaccinated by District Officer and the Native Officer. Penghulus Atan, Grinang. Jugah, Manok Man- chal and Puso visited Kapit during the month. The majority of the padi in the Merirai, Balleh,- and Gat districts is good, only about five houses having poor crops. During April Chop Lee Hua (28 parties) rafted to Sibu 130 logs. 30 logs remaining at Kapit. The District Officer, Kapit. reports that the people of the Merirai, Balleh and Gat seem con¬ tented with life; there arc no general complaints. Every house was visited, forty-four in number, and explanations and instruction given about such matters as tuba-fishing, opening of appeals, farming, Kapit hospital, payment of tax and other matters of public interest. Haji Sa-in, Javanese, was fined $275 at Sarikei on charges arising from his attempt to smuggle an orang-utan out of the State, and was sentenced to two months' imprisonment in default. No other cases are worth of mention, and there was no serious crime in the district. One of the periodic Melanau witchcraft scares occurred in Bruit. where thirteen people alleged themselves to he possessed by evil spirits emanat¬ ing from an old lady named Haji Salmak. All symptoms disappeared on the arrival of the Dresser. Large numbers of Dayaks came downto Sankei and Binatang Bazaars towards the end of the month to sell their rubber. Pcnghulus' district boundaries in the hinterland of the Lower Rejang were slightly altered, the ulu Julau being included in Penghulu Nyambar's area under Sarikei. and the Pedanam river being given to Penghulu Umpor under Kanowit. A meeting of pepper gardener and dealers held in Sarikei on April 1st, and was well attended by the Foochow and Cantonese communities. The gardeners naked for an experimental garden at Sarikei, and appeared anxious to cooperate in any measures taken to eradicate disease in the pepper- vines. and to learn improved methods of culti¬ vation. A report on this meeting has been forwarded to the Senior Agricultural Officer. The District Officer. Lower Rejang. reports that in the course of a Dayak tour he was agreeably surprised to find several really good Dayak pepper gardens in the ulu Bayong, a tributary of the Sarikei. The gardens were very well kept, and indicate that the Dayaks have profited from the example of the Cantonese planters who have settled extensively in the lower readies of this stream. The padi is now harvested throughout the Lower Rejang district, and reports indicate that with the exception of the Sarikei Lemanak and the Sungei Binatang Dayaks, the harvest has been reasonably successful. The Julau Dayaks appear to have done very well, though the Dayak farmer, like his western counter¬ part. is reluctant to admit a good harvest. The following are the trade figures for Sarikei and Binatang for the month :— The clearing of the Kelepu and Bulat roads, a total of about cloven miles, was satisfactorily com¬ pleted by contract labour, and a contract was made for repairing the last two miles of the Jakar road at a cost of 12 cents per fadiom. Sarikei Municipal roads were cleaned and repaired during the month by prison labour. About 300 feet of the road in front of Binatang New Bazaar was washed away by flood and tidal water. A contract was signed for re making this mad, with mangrove sheet-piling on cither side to guard against further erosion. Contracts were signed for clearing and felling the jungle round the Cape Sink light, which is now far inland and obscured by the foliage of pedada trees on the coast. The following are extracts from a report on an up-river lour submitted by Mr. F. L. Crossley, District Officer, Lower Rejang "I left on a Dayak tour on April 20th, accom¬ panied by Aheng Shara-ee, Probationary Native Officer. We travelled by Chinese launch up the Sarikei river as far us N. Badal, thence overland up the Bayong, and across to the ulu Sarikei. The improvement in the condition of the long- houses Since I last visited three Dayaks in 1932 is most noticeable. “I spent three nights in the Sarikei river, suiting nine louses, then left Rumah Penghulu Seli and walked over into the Wak to Rumah Penghulu Nyambar. whose new house is nearly completed. It is built of solid helian and is one of the biggest Dayak houres I have ever seen. "Poling down the Wak, we then boated up the Julau as far as Rumah Banyi, Dayu. Five houres in the Wak, and three in the Julau, were visited. I returned by boat down the Julau. up the Wak, and by boat and launch down the Sarikei over, arriving at Sarikei on the 28th. "The usual lecture on rubber restriction, tuba- fishing. and general adat was given at each house where a night was spent, and all outstanding case- were n-ttled. An interesting case in the Julau was one of tugong bula. wherein the people of one bouse erected the usual heap of twigs and branches as an everlasting monument to commemorate the alleged lie of a local witch-doctor who failed to keep au appointment with a would-be patient. The tugong was ordered to be pulled down and destroyed, and the perpetrators were fined.” On the night of the 30th, a Foochow lunatic attempted to force his way into the District Officer's bungalow at Sarikei, but was repulsed by the Village Constable on duty. He then broke into Mr. A. R. Snelus’ bungalow, smashing in the panels of the front door and three interior doors. He was arrested while assaulting the cook's wife, and later sent to Sibu hospital. An inquiry is in progress to ascertain why the police did not arrest this man when the report was received, an hour before the disturbances. The District Officer, Oya and Dalat, reports that Wat bin Aso who was sent to Sibu last month for medical observation and treatment in connection with his attempt to commit suicide returned to the district under escort and was sentenced to four months simple imprisonment. On April 20th Tua Kampong Atir reported that eight graves had been opened at Penat on the 10th and 13th respectively. The Police have made three arrests, and these persons are on remand pending trial. Tua Kampong Atir’s conduct is to be considered after the accused have been tried. The Mukah Dresser paid his usual routine visit to Oya during the month. The bazaars and Government quarters were inspected and found to be clean and in order. The general health of the district has been satisfactory. Owing to the swarms of mosquitoes at Oya steps are to be taken to spray ditches with special oil. Below are extracts from a report on an up-river trip submitted by Mr. J. C. B. Fisher, District Officer, Oya and Dalat. “On 10th of the month, accompanied by Awang Lai, N.O., I proceeded to the ulu in the outboard Paddy. I returned to Dalat on 19th. During the trip most of the houses in Penghulu Chendang’s and Penghulu Untol’s districts were visited. It was found impossible to proceed to the extreme Ulu Pakoh owing to floods, but the nights of 13th and 14th were spent in the Penghulu's new house at Selabai and up-river Tuai Tuai Rumah were called down. The fort at Nanga Pakoh was inspected and found to be in fairly good repair. The night of 17th was spent in Penghulu Untol’s house and T.R. Itang of the extreme Ulu Oya was called to meet me here. An aum was held at Rumah Rantai, Nanga Pakoh, on 15th to consider what was to happen to the persons formerly living in Rumah Sinja and Rumah Nyanau as both these houses have broken up and their inhabitants are now’ living on their farms. Both houses were formerly in Untol’s district, but now many of these doors wish to join houses in Chendang’s district. The aum, although not yet finished, was most satisfactory, and it appears that the matter can be amicably settled between the two Penghulus. “During the trip a total sum of $375 was collected, of which $316 was door tax for the current and past years. “The policy of Government concerning the issue of cartridges was explained, as also was the position as regards the outlaws still at large. “The importance of the tongkat system of com¬ munication was impressed upon all Tuai Tuai Rumah, and the recent Orders concerning rubber tapping, the forthcoming tapping holiday, the manufacture of scrap rubber, and the Order pro¬ hibiting tuba-fishing were all explained. “There were no outstanding cases to be heard. “At Rumah Rantai, Nanga Pakoh, it was found that a woman named Abun anak Sinja has been shut up in a cage for some time as it is alleged she is mad, and dangerously so. Steps will be taken to have her certified and removed to Kuching.” The bad reports on the padi crop received from the Ulu Oya last month are now found to be in some measure, exaggerated. Padi crops in the three Dayak districts were reported as follows :— (a) Penghulu Dagang's District, Lower Botany Oya and Tamin.—The crop in this area is very bad and is not expected to last more than two or three months in each house. Dayaks say they will buy sago at Dalat as in former years. (5) Penghulu Untol's District, Botany Oya and Ulu Oya.—The crop is reported to be better here, but Dayaks say they will have to go short. Most houses say they can make the supply of padi last out. (cl Penghulu Chendang's District, Pakoh river. —The reports in this river are the beet of them all, and Dayaks seem to think they will have sufficient without unduly stinting themselves. The apparent failure of the crop is attributed to rats, mice and pigs in all districts. The price of raw sago increased again on the figures for last month, the price per passu at Dalat being 58 cents and at the Kut 64 cents. The amount of raw sago exported from the Dis¬ trict increased tremendously during the month, the figures being :— This shows a total increase of 175 1/2 koyans over the total exports for last month. A ship-load of red sand was purchased from a ship which arrived at Dalat from Trengganu via Kuching. This is excellent road material, and has been laid on the Dalat roads. Four motor schooners, five motor launches, eight schooners, and thirty-four bandongs cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 987 tons. At a meeting held at Dalat on 26th it was decided to hold a Regatta on His Highness the Tuan Muda's Birthday, the 8th August next. Permission to hold this Regatta has been applied for. The Rev. Mother Clare of the R.C. Mission, Dalat, left Dalat for Kuching via Sibu on April 20th to convalesce after her recent illness. Visitors to Oya included Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Anderson. Mr. and Mrs. McLaine, Mr. and Mrs. Field, Mr. and Mrs. Spurway and the Rev. Father O’Brien of the R.C. Mission Mukah. The price of raw sago has risen considerably at Mukah, the maximum during the month being 62 cents, and the average 58 cents per passu. It is satisfactory to note that Mukah prices now approxi¬ mate more closely to those obtainable in Dalat and the Kut. Sago prices are now posted on a board in the Telian each week for the information of Melanau producers. The District Officer, Mukah reports that part of the electric wiring in the Mukah bungalow fused late one night owing to defective insulation. Little damage was done, however, since the resulting fire was luckily noticed in time. The demonstration vegetable garden at Mukah is doing unexpectedly well. Crops which have been found to flourish with but little attention are jagong, soya bean, sword bean, and the usual kribang. Forest Guard Awang Kerta reports that he has found timber of sufficient quantity and value in the ulu Balingian to justify the formation of a protected forest. Mukah. PROPOSED PRODUCE AND CRAFTS EXHIBITION. H.H. the Rajah's Birthday, 26th September, 1936. It is proposed to hold an  Exhibition at Mukah on His Highness the Rajah’s  Birthday, '26th Septem¬ ber, 1936. Below is a statement  of the provisional Committee and programme.  Contributions are invited.  BAR SCD-COMMITTEE. W. C. Tamby, Sim Liang Hou and Yeo Ho Bin. Stewards will be responsible for control of the public in collaboration with the Officer-in-charge of Police, Abang AIL CONDITIONS, ETC. 1. Exhibitors pay 10 cents per entry, receiving a ticket (or tickets according to number of proposed entries). They must state for which class (and/or section) they wish to enter (and pay cash, if possible) before 31st August. If no ticket, no exhibit will be received. 2. All fowls and ducks must be in cages, and all flowers in vases or pots (returnable with exhibit). 8. The Committee reserves the right to purchase any exhibits (except boats) at reasonable prices. 4. There will be no appeal from the decision of Judges. 5. Hawkers, side-shows, etc., will be allowed to erect stalls, etc., not less than about 50 yards from the exhibits tent, for His Highness the Rajah’s Birthday only. 6. All exhibits must be locally produced, grown, or made, by the exhibitors themselves. Any purchased goods or goods from other districts will be disqualified, if detected. 7. All exhibits must be in the exhibition tent by 7.0 a.m. on 26th September. 8. Points will be given for size, appearance, quality, workmanship, etc., etc., as the case may be. 9. Hawkers are not permitted to trade amongst the crowd. Stationary stalls only allowed. 10. Each exhibit must bear the exhibitor’s ticket securely fastened to it. If a ticket is lost a duplicate will be supplied  free at any time  up  to  24th September. PROGRAMME. Class :— 1. One passu  clean lamanta.—1st  prize  $5,  2nd prize $2.50. 2. One duck  and one drake.—1st  prize  $2,  2nd prize $1. 3. Six ducks  eggs.—1st prize  $1,  2nd  prize 50 cts. 4. One cock and one hen— Section (a) Chinese breeds, 1st prize $2, 2nd $1. Section (b) Milano breeds, 1st prize $2, 2nd $1. 5. Six hens eggs— Section (a) Chinese breeds, 1st prize $2, 2nd $1. Section (b) Milano breeds, 1st prize $2, 2nd $1. 6. One gantang cooked sago.—1st prize $1, 2nd prize 50 eta. 7. Six coconuts.—1st prize $1, 2nd prize 50 cfs. 8. One trindak.—1st prize $2, 2nd prize $1. 9. One paddle.—1st prize $1, 2nd prize 50 cts. 10. One sack (basket).—1st prize $1, 2nd prize 50 cts. 11. One idus (mat for sago straining).—1st prize $1, 2nd prize 50 cts. 12. One terusuong (sago washing bailer).—1st prize $1,2nd prize 50 cts. • 13. One terinieng (sieve).—1st prize $1, 2nd prize 50 cts. 14. Model making exhibitors may make models (maximum size about 1 cubic yard) of barongs (complete), sago working shed and jelatong (com¬ plete), totem poles, houses, schooners, ships, etc.— 1st prize $5 provided more than one entry. 2nd prize $2.50 provided more than two entries. Points will he awarded for completeness in all ac¬ cessories, originality, workmanship and appearance. 15. One Kain Tenun (woven locally).—1st prize $2, 2nd prize $1. 16. Ono Jala Dean (any size, made locally by exhibitor himself or herself).—1st prize $3, 2nd prize $1.50. Points for balance, workmanship, and ability to open out. If time a jala throwing competition will be held between exhibitors and an additional prize of $3 will be awarded. 3 throws each, biggest circle wins. (Largest, jala exhibited to be used). 17. 12.0 noon Curry competition in Fort. Entrants to produce 1 plate curried meat, or vegetable or fish and 1 plate rice, 1 set sambals. Ticket attached to set.—1st prize $3, 2nd prize $1.50 18. Carving competition—1 piece carving, head, parang handle, paddle, etc.—1st prize $5, 2nd prize $2.50. 19. Sarong competition.—1st prize $10, 2nd prize $5. Exhibits to tie up to Government wharf 9.0 a.m. •20. Prahu competition.—1st prize $3. 2nd prize $1. Same conditions as class 14 and 19. Tie up at wharf 10.0 a.m. 21. Bandong (Sea or River, Malay or Chinese.— 1st prize $5, 2nd prize $2. Same conditions ns 14, 19, 20. Tie up at wharf 3.0 p.m. Classes 19, 20, 21 hulls need not be made specially unless any¬ one wants to. Old boats may be used, cleaned up’ and complete. 22. Fruit grown locally.—1st prize in each section $1, 2nd prize 50 cents. 23. Flowers (grown locally).—1st prize in each section $1, 2nd prize 50 cents. Each section win¬ ner will also receive, 1 changkol, 1 basket and a selection of seeds. * 21. Vegetables (grown locally).—1st prize in each section $2, 2nd prize $1, and each section winner will also receive 1 changkok, 1 basket and a selection of seeds. 25. Geta Para, one sheet ribbed smoked.—1st prize $2, 2nd prize $1. 26. Geta Jelutong, 30 catties.—1st prize $2, 2nd prize $1. 27. Salt fish, about five catties.—1st prize $2, 2nd prize $1. Points for size of fish—lack of smell, and quality and edibility’. 28. Dried prawns (local), one gantang.—1st prize S2. 2nd prize $1. L— 29. Salt meat, three catties.—1st prize $2, 2nd prize $1. Points for quality and lack of smell and edibility. IX,./ 30. Dancing: main Jimpin.—1st prize best couple $7, 7.0 p.m. by lamplight on Padang. Note.— The Senior Agricultural Officer will be asked to supply seeds for entries named. Entrants may apply at Fort to book orders. Fourth Division News. APRIL. His Highness the Rajah arrived at Miri on the first day of the month. On the following day His Highness proceeded to Baram, via the Kuala Baram Road, accompanied by Dayang Valerie, Mrs. C. D. Adams and Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division. The party reached Baram in pouring rain and no official landing was made that day. The next day His Highness the Rajah landed. His Highness and party left for Miri again on April 8th, calling in at Bakong for a short while. The night of the 8th was spent at anchor off Kuala Baram, and Miri was reached the next afternoon. His Highness and party left for Kuching on the 10th. Mr. J. P. Baird. Municipal Commissioner, Kuching, was in Miri during the month on Municipal business. The building of the new Government bungalow at Tanjong Lobang progresses. The questions of light, water and roads there are under discussion. The Native Officer, Niah and Sibuti, Tuanku Ahmat, made a tour of the Niah river during the month and reports all well in the ulu. Numerous applications are being received from all over the Stale for Dayaks to move into the Suai, which river seems to have acquired the reputation of an eldorado. Rainfall at Miri totalled 8.76 inches in 11 days. The reports from Sibuti put the Dayak padi harvest at sufficient for two to three months only. The Malays have done better. The following table gives the Miri trade figures for the month :— The District Officer, Miri, reports that the birds- nest industry at Niah appeal's to be failing for lack of support. Only a few collectors arrived at the caves for the last harvest owing to the low price of nests, and not a single trader put in an apperance at the caves. The price offered in the bazaar (Niah) is 10 cents a kati. Traders complain that the duty— a flat rate of $10.00 per pikul—is too high and is killing the industry, and ask for a 10% ad valorem duty instead. The Drewer-in-Charge, Bintulu, reports that the health of the district generally has been satisfactory. One ease treated during the month calls for special mention. A Dayak working for the Sarawak Timber and Trading Co. was admitted into hospital having had bis abdomen pierced by a one-inch pipe. It appears he was pumping out an underground pulley sump, when a spoke of the pulley transmitting about 200 h.p. at 300 revolutions per minute caught the pipe of the pump and drove it right through his body. The pipe was extracted on the spot. On admission to hospital the man’s right kidney and Home intestines were hanging out; these were care¬ fully put back, the wounds were sewn up, and at the time of writing the Dayak is quite, normal and has returned to Oya, after spending three weeks in hospital. The District Officer, Bintulu, records with regret the death of Semut bin Sabit, Tuan Helal, Bintulu, which occurred on April 30th. The Dayak padi, as was thought to be the case, has proved very bad this year in the Bintulu District, and there are likely to be many hungry Dayaks looking for work towards the end of the year. It is hoped that the timber trade will be able to absorb a number of these. The new kampong across the Sebiew river appears to be a success, since out of the 20 lots demarcated there are only 3 left. Several houses are under construction. Ditches and roads were completed on a small scale during the month. The prison demonstration garden at Bintulu is making satisfactory progress, and should supply the prison with vegetables from the beginning of May. The work on reconditioning the land for the Bin- tulu landing ground remains at a standstill. This has been marked out into strips which will cut out most of the bad swamp area, though whether or not this new scheme will materalise is not yet known. The District Officer, Baram, states that there have been reports of another epidemic amongst the Kayans at Long Laput and several deaths are said to have occurred. Enquiries are being made. In view of the very bad crops harvested by the natives this year in the Baram District, and of the consequent hardship that is bound to occur, and since this is the second, and in some cases the third, successive bad season, His Highness the Rajah has authorized expenditure on relief work necessary up to the amount of five thousand dollars. His Highness has personally appointed Tama Kalang Lawai, perhaps better know n as Tama Weng Ajang, the grandson of Tama Bulan, to be a Penghulu in the place of Aban Wan, whose appoint¬ ment ceased at the end of last year. The appoint¬ ment is universally popular, and great things are expected of the new chief. The Kelabit trip has once more had to be post¬ poned owing to the necessity of the District Officer remaining in Miri during Race Week. It is now very doubtful that Native Officer Mohamad Zin Galau will be able to go. Even when discharged from hospital he will be too weak to travel for some months. Most of the natives down to meet His Highness the Rajah on his visit to Baram returned up river on the 5th. The river was high, and M.L. Mermaid made a vain attempt to tow some twenty-five boats. Ten had to be discarded before the fort was reached, and several more were left behind at Mohamad Zin Galan’s house. Dayang Valerie accompanied the Mermaid as far as the first stop, where she paid a short visit to Mohamad Zin Galau, who was ill and only just able to greet her, and then returned to Marudi on foot. During the month work was started on the repairs to the various store-rooms on the ground floor of Baram fort. They were in a very dilapidated con¬ dition with rotten partitions, and do not appear to have been touched for some considerable time. Fortunately a quantity of old serviceable belian planks are available and the repairs will be effected at very little cost. Wan Ali bin Datu Tuanku Haji Drahman has accepted the appointment of probationary Native Officer and has started work in the Baram District. His Highness the Rajah, accompanied by the Dayang Valerie, Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division, and Mrs. C. D. Adams, arrived in H.H.M.Y. Maimuna on the 2nd. His Highness remained in the district for some days, departing on the 8th. On the way to the kuala His Highness called in at Bakong and visited the premises of the Vanico Timber Company. Whilst in Marudi His Highness attended to many matters and making satisfactory progress, and should supply the prison with vegetables from the beginning of May. The work on reconditioning the land for the Bin- tulu landing ground remains at a standstill. This has been marked out into strips which will cut out most of the bad swamp area, though whether or not this new scheme will materalise is not yet known. The District Officer, Baram, states that there have been reports of another epidemic amongst the Kayans at Long Laput and several deaths are said to have occurred. Enquiries are being made. In view of the very bad crops harvested by the natives this year in the Baram District, and of the consequent hardship that is bound to occur, and since this is the second, and in some cases the third, successive bad season, His Highness the Rajah has authorized expenditure on relief work necessary up to the amount of five thousand dollars. His Highness has personally appointed Tama Kalang Lawai, perhaps better know n as Tama Weng Ajang, the grandson of Tama Bulan, to be a Penghulu in the place of Aban Wan, whose appoint¬ ment ceased at the end of last year. The appoint¬ ment is universally popular, and great things are expected of the new chief. The Kelabit trip has once more had to be post¬ poned owing to the necessity of the District Officer remaining in Miri during Race Week. It is now very doubtful that Native Officer Mohamad Zin Galau will be able to go. Even when discharged from hospital he will be too weak to travel for some months. Most of the natives down to meet His Highness the Rajah on his visit to Baram returned up river on the 5th. The river was high, and M.L. Mermaid made a vain attempt to tow some twenty-five boats. Ten had to be discarded before the fort was reached, and several more were left behind at Mohamad Zin Galan’s house. Dayang Valerie accompanied the Mermaid as far as the first stop, where she paid a short visit to Mohamad Zin Galau, who was ill and only just able to greet her, and then returned to Marudi on foot. During the month work was started on the repairs to the various store-rooms on the ground floor of Baram fort. They were in a very dilapidated con¬ dition with rotten partitions, and do not appear to have been touched for some considerable time. Fortunately a quantity of old serviceable belian planks are available and the repairs will be effected at very little cost. Wan Ali bin Datu Tuanku Haji Drahman has accepted the appointment of probationary Native Officer and has started work in the Baram District. His Highness the Rajah, accompanied by the Dayang Valerie, Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division, and Mrs. C. D. Adams, arrived in H.H.M.Y. Maimuna on the 2nd. His Highness remained in the district for some days, departing on the 8th. On the way to the kuala His Highness called in at Bakong and visited the premises of the Vanico Timber Company. Whilst in Marudi His Highness attended to many matters and inspected certain of the Government buildings. On the night of April 3rd a display of dancing and singing was given in the fort and a mild disturbance was caused during the proceedings by a conflagration across river. The kitchen of a Malay house caught fire, but the flames were extinguished before harm could be done to other buildings. The District Officer, Limbang and Lawas, reports that no serious crime was committed in his District during the month. A considerable number of Dayaks, chiefly Skrangs, visited Limbang on completion of their harvests. They brought down considerable quantities of rice, padi and vegetables such as intikai, entimun, etc., for the market, and at the same time paid in head and gun taxes. Rubber near Limbang is reported to be '‘winter¬ ing” very severely this year, and this month’s yield of latex is less than usual at this time of year. Mandor Daman and his road coolies completed the Brunei road during the month; this was formerly maintained by various contractors, but tho contracts have been cancelled. The road coolies returned to work on the Panderuan road. Owing to the dry weather experienced recentlv, all roads are in moderately good condition. Semayong, an old Tagal prisoner, escaped from Limbang gaol on Sunday, April 12th, and has evaded arrest so far. This man, who was sentenced to six months’ rigorous imprisonment, had almost completed his term of imprisonment and was due for release in ten days from the date on which he escaped. His escape was a considerable surprise. During the month m.v. Brunei and m.v. Jitra maintained their usual regular sendee between Limbang and Labuan. On Sunday, April 19th, m.v. Subok, a new vessel which is to take the place of the Jitra, called in at Limbang to show the flag, and for general inspection. Mr. Fleming of Messrs. Harrison and Crosfield Ltd., accompanied by Mrs. Fleming and Mrs. York, the wife of the Acting Resident, Labuan, wore passengers. All shippers and consignees were invited to inspect the ship, and refreshments were served on board. The Assistant District Officer, La was and Trusan, reports that Penghulu Tai Langop came down with some fifty followers to pay tax. This was the largest gathering of Muruts in Lawas for some years, and a main was held to celebrate it. Tax is coming in steadily. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates Ltd., exported 22,400 lbs. of dry rubber during the month. The Chung Hua School at Lawas continues to prosper. One of the teachers has gone to China on leave, and a local man has applied for registration in order to take his place. A Land Inspector was working in the Trusan District for the greater part of the month. Progress in the survey of gardens is satisfactory, but there is still a great deal to be done. Lawas (Sarawak) Estates Limited. The Directors submit their Report, with Statement of Accounts duly audited, to December, 31st last. The net profit for the year amounted to £1,712 14s. 2d., to which has to be added the credit balance of £451 19s. brought forward, making a total of £2,164 13s. 2d. After placing £1,000 to Reserve, there remains a sum of £1,164 13s. 2d. to be carried forward. During the'year a restricted crop of 964,063 lbs. of Rubber was harvested, which compares with 1,162,667 lbs. for the previous year. The average gross price realised was 5.92d. per lb. against 5'94d. per lb. for the year 1934. . The coat of production f.o.b. Labuan for the year was 4.57d. per lb., and the ‘'all-in ’ cost after charging London expenses, freight, insurance and selling charges, was 5.42d. per lb. This compaiea with an f.o.b. Labuan coat of 3.29d. and an "all-in’’ cost of 4.13d. for last season. The total area vested in the Company is 8,357 acres, of which 4,583 acres are planted. Particulars as given by the Visiting Agent are detailed below In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr. H. Bayford Owen retires by rotation, and being eligible offers himself for re-election. The appointment of the Auditors rests with the Members, and Messrs. James, Edwards & Co. offer themselves for appointment. By order of the Board, ROWE, WHITE & Co., Ltd., Secretaries. 4, Lloyd's Avenue, Fenchurch Street. London, E.C.3. April 30th. 1936. BALANCE SHEET, AS AT DECEMBER 31ST, 1936 REPORT OF THE AUDITORS TO THE MEMBRK8 OP LA WAS (SA ™ ESTATES LIMITKD. We have audited the above Balance Sheet dated December 3IST, 1935, with the Books and Vouchers of the Company in London, in which have been incorporated the Accounts from the Estates as certified by the local Auditors, and the Agents’ Accounts as certified by them. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required. No provision has been made for Depreciation. We have been unable to inspect Title Deeds representing 2,089 acres, which we are informed are in the East. Subject thereto, in our opinion such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the stale of the Company’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explana¬ tions given us, and as shown by the Company's Books in London. CORRESPONDENCE. [The Editor is not responsible for the opinions of correspondents.] KUCHING, 26th May, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR, I was glad to see in the last issue of the Sarawak Gazette that someone had taken up the question of "shorts for women" but like "Observer" in his (her?) opening paragraph I do not think the writer goes far enough. Anyone who has acquired sufficient understanding of the Asiatic conception of what is "simply not done" must realize to what extent such costumes let the wearers down, and unfortunately their com¬ patriots also. If strong reasons could be advanced in favour of wearing shorts one might be able to make some excuse for the practice, but only minor benefits can be claimed from the point of view of comfort and these are heavily out-balanced by ethical and artistic requirements. On the subject of shorts for women "Observer’s” remarks should convince any sensible person that the practice is "infra indignitatem" and he might with great advantage have carried hjs advice further. One regrets the practical disappearance of the riding habit and tweed skirt at home, but the great advan¬ tage of breeches for riding and fishing must be admitted. No such plea can be put forward for the exhibition of monstrosities we are treated to on certain nights at the Club, rather the reverse. The last thing one wants when bowling is to have things flapping about ones ankles, and don't the dear things look pathetic. Again, many good reasons could be advanced for playing golf in this locality minus stockings but none in favour of that practice on any other occasion. No person can afford to take liberties with their personal appearance, and surely the dear things realize the immense advantages of nether extremities clad nicely in silk compared with the ghastly appearance of pimply and discoloured limbs. I have only mentioned the dress question so far as it pertains to the gentler sex, but I fully endorse "Observer’s" remarks regarding the sartorial de¬ ficiencies of men. In conclusion I would ask the ladies to take the mature advice of an old hand whose only desire in asking for the courtesy of your columns is an endeavour to replace the somewhat bizarre figures of club and home with attractive and decorative bits of femininity. I am, dear Sir, Your obedient servant, O. MORES.   