SATURDAY. AUGUST 1st. 1936. Marriage. MORICE—DALY. - (On 30th May. 1936. in London. Bridger de Burgh, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. N. de B. Daly, of 86, Hardy Rond, Blackheath, London, to William H. Cameron Morice, son of the late Hubert Morice and Mrs. Morice, of 41. Yale Court, London. N.W. Local and Personal JULY. Mr. H. B. Crocker, Acting Government Secretary, who has been in Europe on sick leave, is due to arrive in Kuching on August 3rd. Mr. E. O. Bruce, Sarawak Civil Service, was married on June 30th at Caxton Hall Register Office, London, to Fraulein Hildi Kusset Immediately after the ceremony the bride and bridegroom left for Austria, where the honeymoon was spent. Mr. Bruce, who is travelling to Singapore by air, is due to arrive in Kuching on August 10th, but we understand that Mrs. Bruce will not accompany him. since she intends to stay in Europe for a few months and join Mr. Bruce later. Mr. Bruce will proceed to Limbang immediately on arrival, and will not officiate temporarily as District Officer, Miri, as stated in our last issue. While on the subject of marriages, Mr. P. Scott was a passenger on s.s. Darrel which called at Pending on July 25th. Mr. Scott was on his way to Colombo, where bis marriage to Miss Mary Bacchus will take place. On his return, Mr. Scott will act as District Officer, Miri. Mr. Scott was re¬ lieved at Lawas by Mr. A. R. Snelus, whose place at Sarikei has been taken by Mr. H. P. K Jacks. Bau is without a cadet at present. The Administration Report for 1935 has been published, and copies may be obtained on application to the Secretariat, Kuching. The Report contains a good deal more general information than formerly. Mr. B. M. D. Cordiner arrived from Singapore by m.v. Marudu on July 6th in order to take over the management of the Sarawak Electricity Supply Co., Ltd., from Mr. C. Corbin, who left on home leave on July 13th. We record with deep regret the death of Mr. F. A. W. Page-Turner, which took place in England on July 7th. No details have yet been received. On receipt of the telegram announcing Mr. Page-Turner's death all Government flags were half-masted in the First, Second and Third Divisions as a mark of respect for his memory. Although a good deal of Mr. Page Turner’s service was spent in the Third Division, his name will always be associated with the Second Division, which he ad¬ ministered for over fourteen years. An obituary notice appears in another column. Mr. C. A. Willis, a member of the Mui Tsai Commission that has recently been touring the Far East, arrived in Kuching on July 10th, and left on the 13th. Mr. Willis, who is an old friend of His Highness the Tuan Muda, stayed at Astana. On July 23rd a telegram was received from Sibu to say that Song Fort, had been broken into during the night, and a sum of about $800 stolen. H.M.S. Herald, sometimes known as ‘the packetvaart,' arrived at Pending on July 17th and left on the 20th. We are glad to hear that the Herald expects to be with us for the Autumn Race Meeting; this will be the first time that one of H.M. ships has been at Kuching for one of these functions since 1929. Jeluieng, a Dayak outlaw who was con¬ cerned in the Pelagus murder in 1934. was arrested in the Ulu Layar on July 20th. We understand that Mr. F. A. Moore, who is due to return from furlough on August 17 th, will relieve Mr. G. R. H. Arundell as District Officer, Lubok Antu. Mr. Arundell proceeds on home leave about September 28th. Mr. C. D Le Gros Clark, Chairman. Rubber Restriction Committee, paid a short visit to Singapore during the month, leaving on July 13th and returning on the 20th. We are informed that the first circus to visit Kuching for thirty years is due to arrive in the town on August 9th. This circus, which comes from Sambas, N.E.I., has the usual acrobats, and also includes such attrac¬ tions as a lion, a leopard, an elephant, and an assortment of tigers, horses and monkeys. The circus will perform for a fortnight at the Song Kheng Hai Recreation Ground, Padungan, and we wish it every success. Obituary. It is with deep regret that we have to announce the death on 7th July, 1936, of Mr. F. A. W. Page- Turner. Mr. Page-Turner was appointed a Cadet in the Civil Service in March. 1902. After serving at various stations including Simanggang, Sibu, Rejang and Bau. he was in 1910 appointed Acting Officer-in-Charge of the Batang Lupar. thus assum¬ ing control for the first time of the District which he was to administer for so many years, and with which his name will always be associated. After an interval of five years spent in the Third Division, he returned in 1915 to Simanggang as Acting Resident, 2nd Class, and at Simanggang he remained until his retirement fifteen years later. Tn 1915 there was no Resident in charge of the Second Division. His Highness the late Rajah, who spent many years at Skrang and Simanggang when Tuan Muda, retained it as his own Division from the time of his accession in 1868 until 1916, when he handed it over to His Highness the present Rajah, who was then Rajah Muda, together with the control of the Third Division Dayaks. Mr Page-Turner was confirmed as Resident of Simanggang in 1917; he became a member of the Council Negri in 1918, and in September, 1922, he was appointed Resident. Second Division, being the first European officer to hold this title since 1875. He remained in this appointment until his retire¬ ment in 1930. Mr Page-Turner had wide experience and under¬ standing of Dayaks, and enjoyed their entire con¬ fidence. His administration of the Second Division was a complete success, and his name is still one to conjure with among the older natives. "Tuan S’tarna,” as lie was always known, will be mourned by many Malay and Dayak friends who knew him to be a just man a wise and sympathetic administrator. Mr: Page-Turner served on numerous expeditions against head-hunters and other malefactors, and it was during one of these that an incident occurred which provides a good illustration of his personal courage. After halting for the night, Mr. Page- Tumer went down to bathe at a small stream, and believing the enemy to be far away, he dispensed with the usual guard. Suddenly the foliage on the opposite hank parted to reveal a group of hostile Dayaks, all fully aimed, and all very definitely ready for mischief. No whit disconcerted. Mr. Page- Turner. who. it should be remembered. was quite helpless, did not lose his head but started to rate them soundly for their lack of courtesy, asking them how they dared to disturb a European in the course of his ablutions ! No Dayak likes to he thought lacking in manners, and it is related that this particular party grew abashed at the Tuan’s well-chosen words, and eventually retired from the scene in surly embarrass¬ ment,—their departure, it is said, being accelerated by a few final stinging remarks and a shower of pebbles from the irate bather! Those who remember Simanggang in Mr. Page- Turner’s time will agree that with his retirement an epoch came to an end. The loved Simanggang, and the whole station reflected his personality. It was a station steeped in tradition, and the various adats that remained in force gave it a peculiar charm. When Mr. Page-Turner left Simanggang he took with him perhaps the last surviving traces of an old order which made up in dignity for anything that it might have lacked in modern efficiency and hustle. In 1930 Mr. Page-Turner inherited a consider¬ able property in England from his brother. He married in the following year, and leaves a widow and two children, to whom we extend our deepest sympathy. We record with deep regret the death, which occurred in Europe on July 27 th, of the Rev. Father W. van Odijk of the Roman Catholic Mission. The news of Father Odijk's death is the more tragic in that he was just due to return to this country from furlough; his passage, indeed, had actually been hooked. Father Odijk came to Sarawak in 1911 and apart from eighteen months in the Kut and a short interval as locum tenens in Sandakan, his whole service was spent in Rejang River stations, mostly at Kanowit, where he built the Convent. He was responsible for building the Church and Mission station at Durin. and in 1932 he opened up the new R.C. Mission at Kapit. He left for Europe on a well-earned spell of leave in 1935. Father Odijk will be mourned by many friends of all races in the Third Division. His was a most genial and kindly nature, (he was affectionately known as 'the Cardinal' among Europeans, a nick¬ name which suited him admirably,) and he was liked and respected by all who camp in contact with him. Racecourse Development Fund. LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR, KUCHING, 17TH JULY, 1936. 1 enclose herewith further lists showing actual collections towards the Racecourse Development Fund, and shall be obliged if you will publish them in the next issue of the Sarawak Gazette. I am, Sir, Your obedient servant, F. H. POLLARD, Acting Resident, First Division. Impressions of Kuching. REFLECTIONS OF AN OUTSTATION VISITOR We print below extracts from a. letter, which, although it was received some time ago, has not yet been published owing to lack of space. We are sure that the views expressed will prove of interest to our readers. DEAR EDITOR, I have been in Kuching under 2 weeks. I came from other parts of Sarawak to see Kuching as care¬ fully as I can. And what I saw and learned—it is io the glory of God and Rajah that Kuching town and Sarawak territory is being managed by Benevo¬ lent Heads all with the paramount object of the comfort of the population. Believe me or not. I have visited quite a no. of places of different Government, and in no where do 1 find so much sociality, friendliness. humbleness, as in our Rajah’s Domain, and the (doser we get to Kuching the Centre, we find the greater the evidence. People in Kuching I noticed do not talk so much of politics, which is good. They enjoy talking of sports, of gardening1 of planting fruits, catching fish, and planting what, and humourously I root a friend, a very old acquaintance who is like most hit severely by recent slump. With beamy smiles over a cup of coffee at a market skill—which beautifully we find a lot in markets "Say, old chap"- and a pat on the shoulder, "life is a struggle." "No struggle, no life." and laughed happily over the joke. Everyone one sees in the streets go about their work happily and people generally are getting fat and strong, Food is cheap in the bazaar, much cheaper I see than one can cook at home. Why. a friendly clerk told me—"You go to that coffee shop there in India Street which eaters for Government employees. Just order 10c. pork chop. 10c. curry fowl. 10c. soup and 2c. rice plenty—cheap. I tried there and found for 32c. and wondered how can the shop manage it at a profit? It beats me. and no wonder Government clerks in Kuching are looking fit and rosy ! Mei another lady countryman of mine. "Say auntie, where are you off so long? To market at 4 a.m.?" "Yes." "How much auntie can get?" "Sometimes $2, sometimes more, sometimes less." "Well done, auntie!” "Yes," she says, “good too Sarawak ! My children tapping rubber and get 3 catties, and I sell and buy, and my man plants." How beautiful indeed! On passing a certain good old man’s estate, 1 stopped and rested on a bench at the garden designed for public comfort—hoping some one would come out and admit me. Sure enough Mr. X's son came out. "Good day!” I said, "Good day!” he replied. "Say! why do you plant those papaya for? Fruits bigger than bodies!" Said this country and manly Ind "Wo did not pluck the fruits for we want the public to see!" ‘‘Oh! oh!" I remarked. (How beautiful in my mind I mused within myself). "Say, do you want to see my pigs?" "What pigs, friend, I have seen so many, and much?" "You come—I will show you something that the public can learn—you have never seen Buckshires and York¬ shires." Happily T followed—and little by little this manly lad explained of daily feeding and inter¬ breeding—that it’ll take 4 of these pages to explain. “We are doing it for experiment with idea the public will follow and get cheaper pork." Here is Henry Ford's idea "Pay my respects to yon from Father. I'll call another day" I said. I felt pro¬ foundly impressed that the Chinese in Sarawak were imbued with so public spirit. Well done to our Rajah and Government officers ! One day it happened to rain. Stopped at road side to shelter. Here came a Father of my Denomination. "Say, Rev. Father—What are you doing here, so far?" "Administering needs to my folds." "What needs, Father?" "Spiritual” was the answer. "Have you studied sanitation, Father?’ "No" was the answer. "Say! you have done beautifully well indeed—your fruits tell—by running those very useful schools and in your daily rounds you supplement sanitation instructions to your sheep, teach your sheep and lambs of anti-malaria and anti-fly methods.” Practically, you go a step further in advancing Religion.—for a strong body is a fit. temple of the soul and all rhe things and evidence I see in Kuching are God's works. Every man is doing God’s work. All Government employees doing God's work, all services are God’s service, and cheap fish, cheap meat, and cheap fruits and cheap services are all in accordance with God’s pleasure. "What say you. Rev. Father, is this theory right?" "Perfectly" came the answer, and for once, I found God nearer! —W. Veteran Steamer’s Career in Borneo. It is fifty years since the paddle steamer Adeh sailed from a Clyde shipyard for the island of Borneo. There, despite, the stormy sens off those wild shores, she created a record for the Far East by remaining in commission for over forty years. Her hull is still afloat and reminds us of many an exciting trip. 'The Adeh resembled one of the older Clyde steamers. She was built for Government service in Borneo, and was mainly used for keeping isolated up-country stations in touch with the outside world. As an out-station District Officer I have made frequent passages in her up and down the coast, often in very rough weather. She was manned entirely by natives. Her Malay captain was an excellent seaman, and no matter how fierce a storm was raging he would put to sea when many a larger vessel remained storm-bound in port. Though in latter years he became nearly blind he maintained absolute control of his ship, and was said '’smell" his way along the coast. Most of the chief towns are situated up one of the great tidal rivers, each of which has a shallow bar at its mouth stretching a mile or two out to sea. A narrow channel defined by stakes or buoys marks the entrance, but only at high tide is there sufficient water for a ship to enter. When the Adeh reached a river mouth at low tide the skipper, in calm weather, would solve the tide problem by deliberately running the ship aground on the bar. He would then retire to his cabin and wait until the ship refloated with the rising tide. Then he would gradually go ahead until he ■ got across. Tn rough weather, however, tremendous seas thunder across the shallows, and the slightest deviation from the marked channel means instant disaster. The ship would be thrown hard aground and swiftly battered to pieces. Entering a river on the Adeh in stormy weather I have seen as many as ten men at the wheel. A mountainous wave would tower up astern. Instead of its crashing aboard, as seemed almost certain, the stern would lift high in the air, slewing the ship right round until she was broadside on. The steersmen then pulled with all their might to bring her stern back to the seas before the next wave came to prevent it catching her abeam. If it did so it would probably roll her right over or else dash her aground. On one occasion three of us from outstations were travelling together. On board was a cargo of fifty head of half-wild buffaloes. These brutes have nu instinctive hatred of white men. Since our cabin adjoined the foredeck where they were tethered our presence made them very restive. All went well down river until we reached the mouth just before dusk. Here it was blowing a full gale. Nothing daunted, the skipper headed straight for the enormous waves breaking over the bar. Standing nearly on end, the Adeh gallantly fought her way through, and after a severe buffeting gained the open sea. Meanwhile the huffaloes had become terror- stricken at the unaccustomed motion and were tugging frantically at the ropes holding them down. So violently indeed was the ship rolling that we climbed into our bunks to avoid the boxes and other movable objects that went hurtling about our cabin floor. Later that night we were suddenly roused by a clattering of hoofs outside. The buffaloes had broken loose and were charging up and down the alleyways, carried helplessly along by the sharp rise and tall of the ship. Completely marooned in our cabin, we expected to see one of the huge brutes come crushing through the bulkhead. Luckily for us it held firm. Throughout the night the din continued, and it was not until daybreak that the weather moderated slightly. By this time many of the buffaloes had died from exhaustion. After some lively moments the crew succeeded in rounding up the few survivors. With the ship still plunging wildly we managed to grope our way on deck: and though the heavy sens continued the Adeh made safe anchorage at her destination late that afternoon. AN OUT-STATION OFFICER. [The above article, which appeared in a well- known Glasgow paper, comes from the pen of Mr. G. J. D. Walters, formerly of the Sarawak Civil Service.—ED.] An Economic Aspect of the Equatorial Forest. A great deal has been said at one time or another about the effects of deforestation in the eastern tropics. The effects of denudation and subsequent erosion of the Siwalik foothills of India with con¬ sequent conversion of the arable land of the plains to sandy wastes, the formation of Silang prairies in the Philippines, and even the evidence of deteriora-. tion and flooding in this country have been stressed but have largely failed to disturb the mind of the man in the street. And so, in reverting to the sub¬ ject, one feels that one is committing the indiscretion of flogging a dead horse. My excuse for so doing is the publication of a most interesting paper by a French forest officer whose remarks on forest problems in the colonies of Equatorial Africa show how fortunate we still are in our own region and at the same time what we may have to face if we fail to realise this and treat our forest heritage in a sane way. Monsieur Layanden, at the outset, restates the well-known fact that tropical soils are in the main relatively infertile-a fact well recognised in the. Malaysian region—and goes on to say that "primeval forests are m no sense a product of the soil. Very poor soils in equatorial regions often bear magnificent forests, capable of persisting and remaining productive indefinitely. If these areas ar? denuded of forest they degrade very rapidly and irremediably towards absolute desert. Their apparent fertility owes its existence to the forests and disappears with it. In temperate or cold countries, where insolation is low and rainfall well distributed a high proportion of the available land can be cleared with economic gain. Agricultural fertility is maintained for long periods and there is little depletion of plant food materials. In the tropics it is otherwise .... the idea is mis¬ taken that tropical forest will continue almost indefinitely to provide new land for colonisation." He goes on to show that the tropical rain-forests of Africa, which are analogous to our own, at one time covered a vastly greater area than they do to¬ day. He admits that climatic changes of an un- • controllable nature influenced forest retrogression in the distant, past, but he also produces evidence which entitles him to say that— "Though the retrogression of equatorial forest in Africa goes far back in geolo- gical time, there is no doubt that at the beginning of historical time this forest was infinitely more extensive than it is to-day .... One realises that in twenty centuries the equatorial forest has retreated almost ten degrees southwards .... This retreat is almost as great as that which took place between the end of the pliocene and the dawn of history, an interval probably two or three hundred limes as long." Tropical rain forest is regarded as a vegetational climax, which means that it has formed a balance of nature. We are apt to regard this balance as a stable one which is upset only temporarily by forest destruction such as takes place when large areas are cleared for agriculture, but Lavauden rightly main¬ tains that it is quite otherwise—in fact a very un¬ stable equilibrium, which when upset quickly tends to lower the standard of vegetable cover from high forest through scrub to lalang wastes, the process usually being assisted by fire. We have little evidence of complete deterioration to lalang in this country principally because the non-inflammable rain-forest acts as a buffer to the spread of fire, but the more extensive the clearings become, and the greater the total area of secondary forest, the more we shall have to fear in this direction. Examples in North Borneo and the Philippines and probably also in our own Bah country show that this geographical region has no special dispensation, and with pro¬ gressive deforestation we may produce conditions favourable to fire which, combined with baking of the soil, will reduce the land to complete economic infertility. The matter will then resolve itself into a question of the local climate (as opposed to the general climatic conditions of the region as a whole) which may have far-reaching effects not only on our forest resources but on our agriculture. An example of this is to be found in the Gold Coast Colony in one district of which it bad formerly been possible to cultivate the cocoa tree, but where the local climate had been so altered by deforestation that in twenty years the trees changed from their natural evergreen habit to a deciduous one, and finally failed, tn reproduce themselves. This example is quoted by an independent writer but goes to support Lavauden's contentions that the rain-forest. being the climax type, cannot be interfered with without upsetting the balance of nature and that any interference necessitated by economic considerations must bear this in mind. He considers that 30% any country where forest is a vegetational climax— this country, for example—must remain under high forest if its climatic character is to be maintained. Incidentally it is reckoned that this is just about the proportion of merchantable high-forest which remains in Sarawak. It is admitted, of course, that "no densely forested country can progress without a considerable reduc¬ tion of the forested area; but the associated idea that deforestation itself connotes progress is as false as it can be." The relative poverty of tropical soils tends to cause greater inroads to be made on nature’s storehouse—the forest soil—but "it cannot be too often repeated that a reduction in the area of the equatorial forest is not and cannot be advantageous from the standpoint of argiculture or animal husbandry. The suggestion that it is so may often serve as a pretext, but it is never a valid reason. .... There is enough room outside the present forest limits for both cattle and (Top-raising. But no real advantage can be gained without following well known rules for the conservative use of land which leave nothing to chance and cannot be ignored with impunity." Like our own forests, those of equatorial Africa contain a multiplicity of species of which only a few are commercially valuable and Lavanden pleads for a better realisation of the need for improving them "from the wild to the domestic state." Such work had been started in Sarawak but lack of funds put a stop to it. That it will have to be faced eventually is certain in order "to give to existing stands of limited exploitability new characteristics rendering them economic to exploit and conferring on them an acquired (in default of a natural) permanence . . . . The problem would appear to be not so very different from that which, in France, con¬ fronted our ancestors .... but the latter had a much easier task in that they were concerned with forest of a much less fragile nature." The last part of the paper deals with purely technical aspects but one fact emerges which cannot be too often stressed and which applies equally here—there is no hope of economic recovery of the land after it has lost its fertility and therefore deterioration must be prevented. Re-afforestation of degraded tropical soils is economically unsound and the forests must be appreciated while they still exist and not, like so many now famous names, posthumously.—T.C. A Note On Food. Sarawak ladies sing dis song Doodah, doodah Life is short but Mah Jongg's long O-oh, doodah day! This little variation on (he ars longa, vita brevis theme was suggested to me by an incident which happened some years ago. I was down on a visit to a certain town which shall be nameless, and was invited to luncheon by some manned friends of mine. I accepted with alacrity, not only because I liked my host and hostess and looked forward to an hour or two of their company with real pleasure, but also because after several months in one of the remoter out stations I was quite frankly delighted at the prospect of a decent meal. The cooking in the average bachelor household tends to become mono¬ tonous, to say the least of it, since with the best will in the world it is difficult to devote enough time to the kitchen, and one is apt to grow lazy and fall deeper aud deeper into cookie’s greasy hands. For some weeks past I had been pining for the flesh-pots of civilization. Anyhow, I arrived at my host's house shortly after twelve, and found him alone. His wife, he explained, was playing mah jongg at the club, but she would be along any minute now. Would I have a pahit? Nearly an hour later my hostess appeared, full of beans, as the saying is, and full, also of the news (let us not call it gossip) that she had picked up at the club. When she had got most of the juicier items oil her cheat, we sat down to luncheon. This was such a remarkable meal that it deserves to be described in detail. We began with fried fillets of fish that had obviously been cooked the previous night and warmed up again (inefficiently) at mid-day. These . unattractive slabs of protein were innocent of egg and bread-crumbs, and were served without any sauce or garnishing: we made up for this, however, by splashing them liberally with Worcester sauce and tabasco, and by sprinkling them with pepper, These condiments, though they certainly gave the fish a flavour which ii would otherwise have lacked, did little to improve its consistency, which was that of cotton wool that had been soaked in water and then allowed to dry. The next course was roust lamb. A dish appeared on which lay some slices of meat that looked (and last'd) like fragments of a dismembered note-case. For vegetables we had tepid roast potatoes on which the grease was already congealing, and a mixture of tinned carrots and peas which were served in a dish at the bottom of which half an inch of water washed mournfully to and fro. And inevitably we had mint sauce. Why anyone should desire to pickle good meat in mint and vinegar and so ruin not only its flavour but also its texture I have never been able to understand, but if one must have mint sauce, let it at least be made in the proper way; let it not consist (as this did) of a few spoonfuls of harsh malt vinegar in which floated some shreds of bottled mint. Well, perhaps that is enough about the meat course. The sweet, which consisted of tinned apricots and tinned milk, was followed by biscuits and little chunks of a substance alleged to be cheese and done up in tin-foil. Let us draw a decent veil of silence over the coffee. When 1 said my farewells and thanked my hostess for a delightful tiffin. I wonder a cock didn't crow somewhere. I went on my way a sadder and wiser man; at any rate, I reflected. I knew now why my host was reputed to be so ill-tempered in the afternoons. But then it was not really fair to blame my hostess,—bridge and mah jongg left her little enough time for housekeeping, poor thing. Well, I said to myself, 1 ought to have known. The meal I had just eaten was unfortunately typical of European cookery in Sarawak as a whole, and it was foolish of me to have expected anything better. But after all. when one reaches civilization after months of outstation catering .... when one thinks of the succulent fillet steaks and lamb chops, the potential mixed grills hiding coyly in the dim recesses of the cold-storage depot .... Well, a certain amount of disappointment is understand¬ able. And then my thoughts turned wistfully to a house situated a hundred miles up a certain river, and nearly fifty miles from the nearest outpost of ‘civilization.’ I readied this house one evening quite unexpectedly, and two hours later we sat down to the kind of dinner one associates with a first-class grill-room at home. I know that this sounds an exaggeration, but it is not. The meal itself was comparatively simple, but the food (all of it cold storage) was the best of its kind procur¬ able, and each course was perfectly cooked and perfectly served; and after all, what more can one expect at the Ritz? It is rather unfair to add that this particular dinner included fresh strawberries from Java served with fresh (not tinned) cream, since this was exceptional even in this particular house, where good food was the order of the day- every day. But then, of course my hostess this time had ample opportunities for the study of cookery books, since (fortunate creature!) her mornings were not taken up with mah jongg. All she had to do, apart from running a house and looking after a child, was help her husband manage an estate during the worst and most anxious period of depression.—in other words, to take the place of a European Assistant,—and act as nurse and general adviser to a large and varied labour force. So you see that she had plenty of spare time. Well, the instance I have quoted shows that it cun be done. There is no need for us to live like, pigs in Sarawak,—even where cold storage is unobtainable the exercise of a very little additional care and trouble will ensure that palatable meals are produced instead of unappetising and indiges¬ tible messes. And it is worth it a hundred times over. Yes, it can be done. And this is the whole point of this article, which was inspired by a passage in Mr. Richard Wyndham's recent book "The Gentle Savage." The wife of a Doctor living in one. of the more remote districts of tropical Africa provided Mr. Wyndham with a dinner consisting of— borish; a piroshki—a light pastry stuffed with sliced paw-paw. mango, olives, and chopped egg and onion (heavily peppered, this proved the perfect sweet-savoury mixture); a over fish of the carp type, beautifully grilled and served with a sauce of pimentos And forest seps; breast, of guinea-fowl and small cucumbers cooked in cream, and a salad of fresh lettuce hearts; and, to end the meal, a rich sweet of monkey-nuts  crushed in forest honey, thickly covered with whipped cream. Apart from the guinea fowl, there is no reason at all why that dinner, should not be duplicated to-morrow in any Sarawak outstation; even lettuces with hearts can be grown without much difficulty. Yet what does one get, in the ordinary way?—Tinned soup, river prawns fried in greasy batter, chicken so tough that it is literally uneat¬ able. and tinned cheese served with soggy bread, and butter that is a mere pool of oil liberally bedecked with the corpses of flying ants. And what makes one so furious is that there is no reason for this; the materials are there, as are the cooking facilities; all that is lacking is the necessary dash of elbow-grease. That is the trouble,—that and the ghastly tradition of British gastronomy which still has a strange-bold on our middle classes. The English maintain an unholy conspiracy of silence on the subject of food. In one way this is perhaps just as well, since the less said about. English cooking, the better; but in general it is a tragedy, since it prevents the frank and open dis¬ cussion which might free our stomachs from their present disgraceful servitude to a cookery convention which is one of the worst legacies of the industrial revolution. In the eighteenth century Englishmen took a tremendous interest in what they ate, (you have only to look up contemporary journals to prove this,) and English food was probably the best in Europe; but the puritan revival which was a natural consequence of the sudden access of wealth produced by our phenomenal industrial development gave rise to a reaction in favour of a false ascetism. It didn't matter if you accumulated a fortune through child-slavery and sweated labour so long as you dutifully mortified the flesh by suffering the pangs of indigestion,—that was the reasoning. And that, loo, was the origin of the bleak and dreadful era of dullness that swept over midde-class England about 1850. Dyspepsia is the greatest natural enemy of gaiety, wit and good cheer.' And now we have to suffer for it. Any open reference to the subject of food is looked on by the average Englishman as faintly obscene, and if a man is rash enough io admit that he likes the pleasures of the table, he is regarded as definitely letting down the side; the colours of the old school tie fade with shocked dismay at the very mention of sole Mornay, and the Captains of past Fifteens turn in their graves at the whisper of the dreadful words perdreau róti an verjus and zabaglioni. To enjoy one's food is not only shameful and vulgar; it is un-British Only dagoes and a few degenerates like artists and writers take an intelligent interest in the kitchen,—-that is the point of view to-day. But as I have said, it was not always so. We all know what Dr. .Johnson said about minding his belly, and Charles Lamb stated categorically that if he found a man who professed to be indifferent to what he ate, he at once suspected his taste in other directions. This incidentally, is true to-day. In general, you will find that literature and the arts mean nothing to a man who will suffer boiled cabbage in silence; and the woman who can swallow hashed mutton is usually a soulless creature. But let us break the bonds of silence. Gastrono- mically, we English have nothing to lose but our chains and our dyspepsia. In this country, at any rate, we are at rock bottom, and if this article can serve to let a little air and light into the fetid dark¬ ness of Sarawak cookery, it will have served a useful purpose. For there is no need whatever for us to surrender tamely to the 'dead-hen' tradition. Admittedly in the Tropics the raw materials of cookery are not what they are in Europe, but let us at least make the best of them. There is no earthly reason (except perhaps our own laziness—and mah jongg !) why we should not have reasonably attractive meals every day of the week. T have hinted—greatly daring—that if it can be done in Equatorial Africa, it can be done here. Next month I shall try to indicate how it can be done. (to be concluded.) Diocesan Conference in Kuching. A TRIENNIAL EVENT. On Saturday, July 25th, all the clergy of the diocese of Labium and Sarawak assembled at the Bishop's House, Kuching. The diocese nominally comprises the “whole Island of Borneo, and the islands adjacent thereto," but in actual fact the Anglican Church only works in Sarawak, Labuan, Brunei and North Borneo. Except for two priests, who are on furlough, the clergy from all those countries within the diocese were present. In a normal diocese such a gathering is an annual event, but considerations of distance and expense compel us in this diocese to coniine ourselves to triennial meetings. The last was held in 1933. In the in¬ tervening years, the clergy meet similarly under the presidency of the Bishop, but by Archdeaconries, (i.e., Sarawak and North Borneo separately). For the first two days of the week priests were in Retreat, while the last three days were spent in con¬ ference, when many pastoral problems were brought up for discussion. The value of such conferrings will be obvious when it is realised how infrequently such opportunities occur. This year the Confere nce was marked by an event of especial significance. On the morning of Sunday. July 26th. the Bishop, in the presence of all the priests of the diocese and a congregation winch the Cathedral was not big enough to contain, admitted four candidates to the Order of Deacon. The Bishop, as celebrant, was assisted by the Archdeacon of North Borneo as Beacon, and the Rev. Chong En Siong as Sub¬ deacon. The Archdeacon of Sarawak presented the candidates, while the Rev. Father W Shelley, C.R., preached the sermon. The candidates were all mon of mature age, who had for many years been " tested" in the office of Catechist. For the lest two years they have had further and more intensive training at the Cathedral Ordination Test School, under the care of the Commumiy of the Resurrection. On the afternoon of Saturday. August 1st. His Highness the Tuan Muda most kindly gave a garden party at the Astana, to which the clergy of the diocese and the members of the Cathedral congrega¬ tion were bidden. His Highness' kindness was greatly appreciated, and it was an altogether happy occasion. On Monday morning, August 3rd, the priests will return to their various districts. —(Contributed). Films of the Month There were no outstandingly good films al the sylvia Cinema during July,—not every month can we expect a Mutiny on the Bounty, or a Resurrection,—but the entertainment-value level of almost all those that were shown was consistently high. After all, we have nothing to grumble about in a month that included such successes as Rasputin, China Seas. The Iron Duke, The Merry Widow and Brown on Resolution, to mention only five; and when it comes to stars, we didn't do so badly with Wallace Beery. Miriam Hopkins, Clark Gable, Jean Harlow, Maurice, Chevalier, Jeannette Macdonald. Sidney Howard. Franchot Tone, Lilian Harvey, all three Barrymores, Diana Wynyard, Shirley Temple, and William Powell. To this imposing galaxy one must add Mickey Mouse, who appeared on four occasions; Mickey is streets ahead of all competitors in the cartoon field, and has few rivals even among the stars of flesh and blood. Mickey's Band Concert, a coloured Silly Symphony, was an example of the genius of Walt Disney at its most entrancing, and Mickey's Service Station gave full play to his impish wit: he has an astounding capacity for imbuing inanimate things with vivid personalities. Under his magic touch chairs, motor-cars and clocks come to life with an eerie reality, and umbrellas lake on the most subtle and demoniac intelligence. But let us leave the looking-glass land inhabited by Mickey and his friends and turn to what we may call the 'legitimate’ screen. The Iron Duke was very good Arliss and as such first-rate enter¬ tainment but it was also very poor history and suffered from the second-rate production that is an all-too frequent characteristic of films turned out by British studios. (In parenthesis, let me mention that an eminent American film critic remarked recently that reviews of British pictures should by rights appear on the Home Movie page : There is sufficient truth in this wise-crack to give it a sting.) In this film the Waterloo scenes, for instance, were unbelievably amateurish,—it would have been better to have left them out altogether. On the other hand the Duchess of Richmond's famous ball was very well done, and many of the interior shots were excellent. George Arliss, as always, was superb in the part of G. Arliss, and Gladys Cooper showed many of our younger act¬ resses just where to get off by her rendering of the difficult and unsympathetic part of the King of France’s niece. She knows her job from A to Z, and is a continual delight to watch. Allan Aynes- worth was perfectly cast as Louis XVIII, that fat and irresolute but withal dignified monarch. Where's George, another British production, contained of lot of delightful fooling on the part of Sydney Howard, ably supported by Mabel Con- standuros in the role of his shrewish wife. But here again the tempo was far too slow, although admitted¬ ly that didn't seem to matter so long as Sydney was on the screen He is one of the greater clowns. Brown on Resolution was not only good enter- tainment, but also excellent propaganda for the British Navy. The Naval scenes, which were photographed under the direction of the Admiralty, were tremendously effective: there is an awful fascination in the mechanical processes of destruc¬ tion. and the possibilities of naval warfare in this respect were exploited to the full. The sight of a squadron of cruisers ploughing through the sea in formation can be breath-taking in its impressiveness, and there is an undeniable majesty in the thunder of naval (or any other) guns. All the scenes taken on beard ship were absolutely accurate technically, and their interest made us toterant of a rather banal and highly improbable plot. On the whole a film well worth seeing. It was unfortunate'that the two best films of the month, Rendezvous and Splendor, ran only for one night each. The former was a delightful comedy¬ thriller dealing with America's notorious ‘Black Chamber or code-breaking bureau in time of war, and starring William Powell; the latter was a magnificently acted play on the matriarch theme featuring Miriam Hopkins, Paul Cavanagh, Helen Westley and Billie Burke. Miriam Hopkins gave a splendid performance as the interloper in a virulent¬ ly clannish new-poor family, and she was supported by a cast of unusual excellence. The acting, settings and production of this film were just about as good as they could be, and redeemed a lightly threadbare story. Another good American picture was The Case of the Curious Bride, a thriller in the Thin Man vein featuring Warren William and Margaret Lindsay. It moved with the slickness that is proof of skilled direction, and held one’s attention all the way through. Oh. in case I forget, the one and only Shirley Temple danced and sang in Curly Top. which 1 am sure was a suitable vehicle for this children star's . roguish charm. Probably those who like roguish little Shirley went to see this film.—I stayed away, so if you want to know what it was like I am afraid you will have to ask someone else. Mainly About Nothing. WHERE WAS I?—WHAT HAPPENED? The Americans are a progressive race, and a recent contributor to Ballyhoo has invented a device which fulfils a long-felt want, and one which should have its place in every home. There comes a time in every man's life (he explains) when he awakens—usually about 11.0 a.m.—to a blood-curdling consciousness and the throbbing realization that he must face a bright, sunshine-swept world. It is then that terrifying thought strikes him right between the bed and the bathroom. What did he do the night before? His befogged mind staggers back over the clock with the agonising result that there are ominous blanks of time that absolutely refuse to be accounted for. It is here (he says) that his invention comes in. It is called The Little Wonder Gap-Filling Service, and consists of a list which can be fitted into a neat frame to stand on the dressing table. All that the poor penitent has to do is to consult the Little Wonder List, and by a process of elimination fill in the gaps. He can then shake loose from the toils of alcoholic remorse and face the world with confidence. CHILDREN' HOUR. Good evening children. This is the late, great Mrs. Meyrick speaking,—from the pages of her justly celebrated history of the immortal '43' “Even our old bootleggers we loved. Perhaps they were just a trifle rough and noisy,—we loved them just the name. If anything happened to upset them in the least, knives would flash out or a shot he fired. Then all the woman would scream or go off into hysterics ....... But to me the bootleggers wore just nice, dear boy." • • MORE ABOUT PSYCHOTHERAPY. Some rime ago we published a few brief notes on the phobias prevalent in Sarawak. This month we propose to touch on some of the more interesting cases of mania that have come to our notice. According to Webster’s dictionary the word 'mania' may mean 'violent mental derangement,' but we propose to use it in its alternative and more usual sense of an excessive and unreasonable longing’ for some object or course of action. We have all heard of cases of this; for instance, when a lady of wealth and position is caught abstracting articles of value from the counters of a Depart¬ ment Store and secreting them about her person, it is not a case of ordinary plain stealing. Dear ' me. no, it is nothing so simple as that,—the poor creature is suffering from kleptomania; in other words, she feels au excessive and unreasonable longing for bottles of scent and expensive hand- kerchiefs, and so is driven to appropriate them without going through the usual formality of pay¬ ment. It should be noted, though, that this dis¬ tressing mental illness is confined almost exclusively to the upper classes; kleptomania is known as ‘shop¬ lifting’ where typists and factory-girls are concerned and usually carries with it a sentence of three months’ hard labour. But to return to our muttons, or rather manias. The following are examples of typical Sarawak manias picked at random from our case book. Is yours included?  Adhaesiomania.—The craving for bottles of gum. Perticamania.—The urge to worship the truck of the station flagstaff. Pileomania. The longing to secrete fishes' heads in the hats of elderly Chinese. Scriptomania.—The furtive longing to take a piece of chalk and scribble extracts from Freud on the back of the Resident as he precedes you down a jungle path. Ariamania.—The itch to stand up and give bird imitations when presiding in Court Muscomania.—The craving for stag muss. Araneamania.—The almost irresistible craving for thousands and thousands of cobwebs. Calvitiomania.—The longing to smear bald heads with honey. The above mental ailments, while certainly dis¬ tressing, do not give local psycho-analysts any real cause for concern since they are rarely attended by serious consequences. It is altogether another matter, however, when phobias and manias become mixed in one individual: the prognosis in these cases is grave in the extreme, and they sometimes develop in a very alarming manner. As an example of this we shall merely mention that there is at present a gentleman in a certain outstation who is suffering from Sacpimcntophobiamania, i.e., who craves to fear becoming a bamboo hedge. His case is being very carefully watched. WITHOUT COMMENT. The following is an extract from the section of the 1936 Administration Report dealing with Municipalities :— "The Kuching fire brigade was called out on five occasions, but in no case was any damage done to valuable property." First Division News. JUNE. An inquiry into the death of a Chinese woman named Leong Jan Tok was held at Kuching on June 3rd. A verdict of death from natural causes was recorded. The District Officer, Kuching, visited Lundu, Simatan and Telok Serabang during the month. On June 1st a petition was submitted by 67 inhabitants of Kampong Sentah begging Govern¬ ment to reinstate Tua Kampong James of Sekrak as Ketua'an Orang Kaya. James resigned this appointment during March as a result of certain facts disclosed at an inquiry into numerous allegations made against him. It would appear that the recent patrols off the coast between Muara Tebas and Tanjong Datu have had the desired effect on smugglers. At Telok Serabang it was reported that rumours had been received from Dutch Borneo to the effect that smugglers were now afraid to use the sea as a means of importing rubber and tobacco. The District Officer, Bau, reports that a case of gang robbery appears on the records for June. The sum of $21-5 was taken, and there appears to be little hope of tracing the robbers. The actual robbery took place at the south end of the bazaar at 8.30 p.m. on June 23rd, 1936. 379 persons were treated and 109 N. A.B. injections were given at Bau Dispensary. The Dresser-in-Charge visited the Kampongs in Krokong and Jagoi district. A certain amount of free medicine was given, the total number of patients treated being 386. In addition 34 N.A.B. injections were given, and 90 vaccinations were performed. A number of Left-hand Branch Dayaks visited Bau during the month and paid in their tax. Dahan Rubber Estates harvested 17,200 lbs. of dry rubber during June. Rainfall at Bau was 4.54 inches, and at Dahan 7.61 inches. A reminder, sent to the Left-hand Branch, warn¬ ing all those who had not counted their rubber trees and sent in their census returns to do so at once, caused some thirty-five Emproh Dayaks to come to Bau in haste. They stated that they had never counted their trees, as the Government Agent who made out the returns only asked them, how many they had planted. If this is so. then most of the returns from Emproh and possibly from the Left¬ hand Branch as a whole will be incorrect. New figures are being submitted to the Census Officer for checking. The main Bau-Kuching road remained in excellent condition during the month, and the minor roads were very fair considering the traffic. The lorry was in constant use, carrying tailings, stone, and timber for roads and bridges. None of the four new gold mining companies in Upper Sarawak have as yet commenced mining operations, although extensive prospecting operations are being carried out. The average price of gold for the month of May was $58.20. Royalty paid amounted to $12,038. During the six months ending 30th June the sum of $118,536.59 in cash and cheques has been remitted from Bau to the Treasury , Kuching. The following table gives the individual output of gold for May, 1936, by the various mining companies operating in Upper Sarawak :—  The District Officer, Serian and Samarahan, reports that a Land Dayak of Kerosen was sentenced to 5 years’ imprisonment under Section 304 (b) of the Penal Code, and Bujang bin Musa was fined $75 or 4 months’ imprisonment for attempting to outrage the modesty of a young girl. There were no other cases worthy of mention. Dayak tax both at Simunjan and Serian has been coming in well. At Sambir, the Malays were dissatisfied with the kampong lots laid off last year and, as reported last month, they petitioned the District Officer to have them changed. The Assistant Superintendent of Surveys visited Sambir on 16th and agreed to lay off new lots behind the old kampong, and pointed out to the Malays that they should have said that they were dissatisfied with the old lots at the time of demarcation. He informed them, therefore, that the cost of re-survey may be collected from appli¬ cants for the lots, while the old lots would still be available free. They agreed to this, and undertook also to make a new kampong road in front of the new lots. Mr. J. L. Noakes, Assistant Superintendent of Surveys, visited the Sadong coast from June 16th to 18th aud explained to the Malays of Moyan, Serpan and Nonok that if they so desired the Land and Survey Department was prepared to demarcate their padi land and issue the owners with Occupa¬ tion Tickets. It was fully explained to them that there was no necessity for them to have titles if they did not wish to, but that if other people applied for their land and were willing to pay the quit rent, then they (the original owners) would be liable to lose their land since land may not be held up unless the owner has a title. Mast of the inhabitants expressed their willingness to take out titles, though the Moyau people were quite frank and said that they would probably not be able to pay the quit rent as they already had large debts to Government for the rent on their existing coconut gardens. The success of Mr. Noakes’ visit was due to the fact that land along the Sadong coast is becoming scarce, and consequently its value is increasing; the popu¬ lation, too, is increasing, and the demand for land is becoming greater. At S. Plandok, Kuala Sadong, five men all applied this month for the same piece of land. There were new applications by the Bugis for over 100 acres at S. Trasi, and seven Chinese from S. Ketup (Samarahan) have applied for 200 acres across river from the Simunjan Offices. Work on the Native Officer’s new quarters at Serian was nearly completed at the end of June. The new bazaar was opened during the month and the old bazaar of leaf attap shops was pulled down. The scheme of laying out small bazaar areas in various villages along the Sadong coast and making all traders apply for sites in them if they wish to continue trading, instead of allowing them to trade in isolated villages and become monopoly shops, is now nearing completion. Bazaar areas have been laid out at M. Tuang, Tambirat, Sebandi, Moyan, Nonok, Smrah and Sbangan, and Pendam and Jaie the last two will be demarcated shortly. The following is an extract from a report by the District Officer, Serian and Samarahan :— “I visited M. Tuang (Samarahan) again on June 12th and held a meeting of the Chinese traders, all of whom were informed that if they wish to continue trading in 1937, they must pull down their old shops in the kampongs and apply for sites in the new Tuang bazaar. The traders seemed to welcome the idea of a bazaar at Samarahan, but requested that all hawkers in boats from Kuching should be stopped for two years, as they lie alongside the villages until their boats are full, or until they have sold all their goods, and then return direct to Kuching via the lobas, thus cutting out the Tuang bazaar. The matter has been referred to the Resident, and it is possible that the shopkeepers’ request will not be allowed, but all hawkers probably be required to build shops at Tuang if they wish to continue to trade.” The Native Officer, Lundu, reports that Dresser Austin L. Reggie arrived from Kuching by m.l. Lucile on 11th and proceeded to Simatan by the same vessel the next day. He visited Kampongs Pueh, Paun, Sebaku, S&rayan, Sebiris, and Tebro and returned to Lundu overland on 20th. 23 N.A.B, injections and 147 vaccinations were performed by him during his tour. He returned to Kuching on 23rd. The general health of the station has been fairly satisfactory. On the instructions of the District Officer, a meet¬ ing of all Tuai. both Malay and Dayak, was held at the Lundu Kubu on June 30th. The object of the meeting was to discuss padi-farming at Tanjong Purun during the forthcoming season. Several applications for virgin jungle in the vicinity of Forest Reserve and Protected Forests have been made by Dayaks of Sebiris. Serayan and Sebaku for padi-farming for forthcoming season. Their applications have been definitely refused. They were told that they must farm the jerami four or five years old, and that they have to farm the next site alternatively. An inspection was made of Chung Hua School buildings at Lundu and the Committee’s attention was drawn to the bud condition of the buildings and need for extensive repairs. It appears that the repairs will be completed in six months' time. During this period the pupils will be housed else¬ where as a temporary measure. Football and Cricket. KUCHING VERSUS H.M.S. HERALD.. FOOTBALL. 18th July. KUCHING 5. H.M.S. HERALD 3. The game opeued at a fast pace, quick accurate ground passing being the main feature on either side. The Kuching forwards appeared the more dangerous set in front of goal, and after one or two narrow misses gained a two-goal lead through Dahlan and Frederick. The Herald were still playing well, however, and succeeded in drawing level before the interval; one goal being the result of a penalty. On the resumption of play the Herald fell away badly, bring unable to keep up the pace set in the first half. Kuching had a comparatively easy time from now on. and although the Herald struggled pluckily, the home side succeeded in adding three more goals to the Herald’s one (all from Kitang) before, the end. Kuching : J. V. Benson: Buang. Weng Sheng; E. M. Selous, Silet. Yahya; Oh Loo. Frederick, C. Linang. Kitang, Dahlan. 19th July. KUCHING 3. H.M.S. HERALD 1. The game on the second day did not produce the same standard of football as that on the first day, nevertheless, Kuching again found no difficulty in running out winners. Freddie Lim scored from a breakaway in the first five minutes and a little Inter the Herald drew level Before the interval Han Chong cut in from the left wing to give Kuching the load. Taha was unlucky to have a goal disallowed in this half, his first time low return drive following a clearance by the Herald goalkeeper being the best shot of the match. Shortly after the interval Han Chong put Kuching further ahead. The remainder of the game developed into a series of breakaways on the part of the Kuching forwards, but their finishing was usually poor, and in spite of the visitors' goal¬ keeper having to retire midway through this half, no further goals were added. Kuching: Bohran; Peter Goh, Weng Sheng; Cosmo, Cambie Chung, Eng Seng: Seng Ek, Seng Chiang, Taha, Freddie Lim, Han Chong. —W.J.C. Sarawak Rubber Estates, Limited. The Directors have pleasure in submitting the Audited Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 1936. Accounts.—The year’s working, after making provision for depreciation,  Area.—The Total area of the Estate is 2,784 acres, of which 2,674 acres are under rubber, all of which is mature. During the year 678 acres of reserve land not suitable for Rubber Planting were surrendered to the Government with a view to the reduction of the Quit Rent payable. Crop.—The crop harvested during the year amounted to 636,072 lbs., as compared with 698,981 lbs. in the previous year. The reduction in output is due to the prohibition by Government of Tapping for a total of 65 days during the year. Labour and Health.—The supply of labour was maintained and remains just sufficient to meet present requirements. The health of the Force has been good. Estate— The Visiting Agent has recently reported that the Estate is in a satisfactory condition. Directorate.— In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. A. R. Malcolm retires from the Board of Directors arid, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. Auditors.—Messrs. Turquand, Youngs & Co. retire and offers themselves for re-appointment. On behalf of the Board, J. K. HENDERSON,  Directori A. R. MALCOLM,  Directors SACKVILLE HOUSE, 143/149, FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C. 3. 30th June, 1936 AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SARAWAK RUBBER ESTATES, LIMITED. Wo have audited the Balance Sheet set forth above, and have obtained all the information and explanations we have required. We have compared the Balance Sheet with the banks and vouchers of the Company in London, and with the signed returns from the Estate in Sarawak. In our opinion such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, according to the best of our information aud the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company and the signed returns from abroad referred co above TURQUAND, YOUNGS & CO.. LONDON, 1st July, 1936. Chartered Accountants. Kuching Badminton Association. NOTES. Since the formation of the Association in March this year very encouraging progress has been made, and the Association is now firmly established, largely due to the kindly support given by His Highness the Rajah and His Highness the Tuan Muda. Clubs which have affiliated with the Association are :— Sarawak Medical and Health Recreation Club, Sarawak Club, February Badminton Party, Kong Oo Badminton Party, Jovial Jap Party, Hollywood Party, Brothers Badminton Party, United Badminton Party, Hokien School, Persukutuan Guru. Gersik Re-Stia Jaya Club, Kampong Pulo Badminton Party, Min Teck School, Bian Seng Badminton Party, Bandar Sah Badminton Party, Sesco Badminton Party, and the Persenangan Bad¬ minton Party. The 1986 open tournament, for which the sur¬ prisingly large number of 90 entries had been received, was brought to a successful conclusion on July 15th at Dr. Wong Cheong Way's grounds at Rubber Road. His Highness the Tuan Muda, Dayang Anne and a large gathering comprising Malays, Chinese and Europeans were present to witness the final of the mixed doubles. This was a closely contested event although the players were handicapped to a certain extent by the slippery grass court, and probably they were also nervous playing before such a large "gallery." Miss Wee Sui Eng and Yeo Cheng Chin won 21—13 and 21—]2 due to better combination and to the fine smashing of Yeo Cheng Chin ; the runners-up Miss Tan Sai Hua and Morgan Chai, however, put up a very good fight. At the conclusion of the match Dayang Anne graciously presented the tournament prizes. The president of the Associa¬ tion. Dr. Wong Cheong Way. and the Datu Amar both thanked His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne for honouring the Association with their company. The Datu Amar also gave a brief résumé of the history of badminton in Kuching and of the formation of the Association, and then called for three cheers for Dayang Anne, which were heartily given. Little Miss Wong Tshook Chiang presented Dayang Anne with a beautiful bouquet of orchids and then His Highness the Tuan Muda, in a brief speech, thanked Dr. Wong Cheong Way for his hospitality. Tn assuring the Association of his support. His Highness said that, owing to the essentially amateur spirit of the game, badminton appeared to be an ideal means of bring¬ ing the various races of the community together in friendly rivalry. Everyone then adjourned to the bar. where refreshments were served. Some of the ladies were encouraged to try a few purc-frnit non-alcoholic cocktails, but judging by the pro¬ digious feats which were later performed on the Sarawak Club bowling-alley, we have come to the conclusion that the person who made the cocktails must have used brandy instead of lemon juice by mistake. We wish to thank the following gentlemen who kindly donated prizes Dr. Wong Cheong Way, Datu Amar, Datu Hakim, Datu Bentara, Haji Bol Hassan, Abang Bol Hassan and Messrs. Chiang Wah Onn. Wee Cheng Hew, Wee Hock Siew, H M. Calvert. F. H. Pollard, E. M. Selons, K. Kitto, F. L Mansel, F. Harding and Lee Eng Nam.—(Contributed.) Kuching Badminton Association Open Tournaments, 1936. MIXED DOUBLES Sarawak Club. TENNIS TOURNAMENT. The draw is as follows :— MEN'S SINGLES. Baron+ 15 odd games and scr. even vs. Benson scr. Harding+15 vs. Kitto-15. Mansel + 15 odd games and scr. even vs. Cargill scr. Whale +30 a bye. MIXED DOUBLES. Mrs. Lowe & Harding+15 vs. Dayang Anne & Kitto-15 odd games and scr. even. Mrs. Calvert & Cargill scr. a bye. Mrs. Pitt-Hardacre & Mit¬ chell-15 odd games and scr. even vs. Mrs. Kelley and Baron+ 15. Mrs. Kennedy & Mansel + 15 a bye. MEN’S DOUBLES. First Round.—Harding & Kitto scr. vs. Baron & Mansel+ 15. Second Round.—Harding & Kitto scr. vs. Mit¬ chell & Cargill-15 odd : scr. even. Third Round.—Baron & Mansel+15 Mit¬ chell & Cargill - 15 odd : scr. even. LADIES' DOUBLES First Round.—Mrs. Kelley & Mrs. Pitt_Hardacre 15 vs.. Dayang Anne & Mrs. Kennedy scr. Second Round.—Dayang Anne & Mis. Kennedy scr. vs. Mrs. Calvert & Mrs. Lowe scr. Third Round.—Mrs. Calvert & Mrs. Lowe scr. vs. Mrs. Kelley & Mrs. Pitt-Hardacre-15. Tennis. KUCHING OPEN TOURNAMENT, 1936. Results to date are as follows :— MEN'S DOUBLES. First Round.—E. Van Houten & N Khin Siong beat D. Suhaili & A. Merican 6—3, 6—3. Mat A Ben beat Edmund Ho & Lee Chui Chun 6—0, 1 —6. 6—2. Chua Teck Hee & Wee Ah Chew beat E. Reutens & Dr. Tan Liang Huat 6—2, 7—5. J. A. Harry & S. Harry a bye. Ong Hap Ann & Lim Ah Bee beat Joni & Sejili 6—0, 6—2. Mitchell & Cargill a bye. Liaw Ah Nyaw & Kho Chong Soo beat Baron & Philp 6-1. 6-0. Benson & Kitto a bye. Second Round. -Mat & Ben beat E. Van Houten & N. Khin Siong 6—1, 1—6, 6—4. Liaw Ah Nyaw & Kho Chong Soo beat Benson & Kitto 6—4. 7—5. MEN'S SINGLES. First Round.—A. Merican beat Cargill 6—3, 6—2. Liaw All Nyaw a bye. Ong Hap Ann beat J. A. Harry 1—6, 6—4, 8—6. Mitchell a bye. Kitto beat Benson 6—2. 6—0. E. Reutens a bye. Chua Teck Hee beat Baron by default. Mansel a bye. Second Round.—A. Merican beat Liaw Ah Nyaw 6—3, 6—0. Kitto beat E. Reutens 6—1. 6—0. Chua Teck Hee beat Mansel 5—7, 6—1, 6—3. Second Division News. MAY. One appeal from the Lingga Petty Court con¬ cerning a Dayak fruit tree dispute was dismissed by the District Court, Simanggang. The appellant then appealed to the Resident's Court but the appeal was summarily dismissed. There was a large increase in litigation at Simanggang during the month. A number of Dayak laud disputes, mostly appeals from Peng- hulus, were heard. There was also one conviction for illegal plant¬ ing of rubber. Accused was fined $25 for planting two trees. Three Lingga rubber dealers were fined $10 each and costs for exceeding the maximum stocks allowed in their licences. On May 18th Chong Kui of Engkilili was found guilty of the attempted murder of Lee Jun Nyat. Sentence was deferred pending accused being placed under medical observation in Kuching. On the 21st Lau Teng Mong, a boy of 14, was convicted of causing grievous hurt by a dangerous weapon; the sentence was deferred aud the minutes of the case were sent to the Chief Justice. In the Police Court, the Juragan and Chinchu of m.t. Chin were charged on May 7th under Order No. XVI1. Ports and Shipping regulations No. 53, with carrying an excessive number of passengers. The case was adjourned sine die for the opinion of the Chief Justice. On May 10th an inquest was held by the Native Officer, Lingga on the body of Saur (/.) anak Nyaing of Rumah Lansam, Ulu Sebuyow, who was drowned when the boat in which she was travelling was capsized by waves off Tanjong Lutong, Lingga. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned. 224 patients were treated at Simanggang Government dispensary during the month, and 185 X A .B. injections were performed. The general health of the district was good. A large number of Dayaks came to Simanggang during the month to pay taxes, etc.; the land and fru.it tree dispute season has definitely begun. __________ Although the beneficial results which will result from the prohibition of tuba fishing have been explained ro all Dayaks, many of them still ask permission to tuba small side-streams. This, of course, has been refused. Re-roofing and repairs to Fort Alice, Simang¬ gang, started during May. The re-roofing of the main portion was practically finished by the end of the month. A serious boating accident occurred at Lubok Tedong near Engkilili ou May 21st. A boat-load of eighteen Chinese men. women, and children upset, and twelve persons were drowned. Had it not been for the prompt action of Tsai Kirn and his aunt who were passing in a boat, it is likely that the list of fatalities would have been even heavier. All the bodies were eventually recovered, and Mr. K. H. Digby went to Engkilili on the 22nd to hold an inquest. A verdict of death by mis¬ adventure was returned. The District Officer, Saribas reports that during the last two weeks of May thirteen persons (five Malays and eight Dayaks) were convicted of planting rubber after June 1st, 1934. In every case the prosecution was instigated by the Rubber Restriction Inspectors, and it is anticipated that there will be further prosecutions next month. No contravention of the rubber tapping holiday was detected. Towards the end of the month Penghulu Igoh was sent for and instructed to inform all his anembiak that at the conclusion of the harvest they must abandon farming huts and temporary dampas and return to their long houses. Previously a similar warning had been sent to the Spak Tuai. Such an order was absolutely essential in view of the fact that recently Spak Dayaks have been con¬ victed of harbouring rebels. It was also announced that the District Officer would visit the ulu early next month in order to ensure, that this order has been enforced. The District Officer, Lubok Antu. reports that a request was put forward by some of the Delok Tuai, including Penghulus Sambau, Sanggong. Mumin and Jantan of Menyang that Baneng and Miloh. who have twice committed incest within the last four months, should be allowed to marry. Baneng is a half-brother to Miloh's mother, but in spite of this close relationship some of these tuai-tuai—Mumin and Jantan being particularly keen—assured him that marriage was possible if the jala ceremony were performed. This request was only put forward on account of the two culprits having committed the offence twice in such a short time, and because of the general fear that the offence would be repeated almost immediately. The District Officer refused to allow the marriage, and also refused to accept money for a fine and brought Baneng down to cool off in gaol in order to keep him out of further mischief. The District Officer adds that it is amazing how Dayaks will find their way round their own adat when it suits their book. A Chinese pepper gardener named Jee Phang was found dead in his house near Sungei Sebungku at 4 p.m. on May 8th. His death was found to be due to nicotine poisoning, nicotine being found in some Chinese medicine which he bad just drunk; he only lived for about three minutes after drinking this medicine. It seems unlikely that this was a case of suicide, and it is probable that it was murder. Further inquiries are being made. JUNE. There were several prosecutions in the District Court, Simanggang, for not submitting rubber census forms. All but one of these resulted in convictions. There was one reported case of pepper-vine cutting, but no one was charged; there is very rarely a conviction in a case of this nature. The owner of the garden is probably the culprit, and cuts a few vines shortly before the pepper harvest, so as to have an excuse for not paying his debts. 191 patients were treated at Simanggang Government dispensary during the month, and 139 N.A.B. injections were performed. The general health of the district was good. Almost all exemption and door tax in the Simanggang district had been collected by the end of the month. Reports of begawai have been received from all localities. Seven doors of Skrang Dayaks took out passes to remove to the Temburong district of Brunei. Agricultural Assistants Ong Kee Hui and Ong Chin Ghee arrived during the month and inspected the pepper areas at Lingga and Simanggang, also the experimental demonstration vegetable garden at Nanga Enteban. The total stocks of black and white pepper held in the bazaar amounted to 475 piculs, 65 katis; Lingga and Pantu stocks were reported to be very small. The repairs to Fort Alice roof were finished during the month, though the drain-pipes still await completion. The old attaps have been sold by auction. The whitewashing of the Fort is not yet finished. On June 30th m.l. Rentis returned for duty at Simanggang. Considerable alterations have been made to her accommodation, which, it is expected, will make for improvement in comfort. The engine has been moved 3 feet astern from the original position. On June 1st Mr. K. H. Digby left for a visit of the ulus of the Sebuyow and Lingga rivers, start¬ ing via Sebuyow. He returned to Simanggang on the 11th via Lingga. On the 26lh the District Officer left for ... visit to Skrang and ulu, and was still away at the end of the month. On June 9th Probationary Native Officer Abang Mansor bin Abang Pong was married to Dayang Norkia, daughter of Abang Zin, Native Officer, Simanggang. There was a large reception on the evening of the 9th at Abang Zin's house which was attended by all the European officers. An excellent curry was provided. A young female maias (orang-utan), which was captured by Ulu Lingga Dayaks and brought to Simanggang, was purchased by the District Officer, permission to do so having been obtained from the Curator, Sarawak Museum. On June 4th Dresser George Ho came down from Lubok Antu to do temporary duty at Engki- lili. He returned on the 12th. He came down again on the 25th. During bis stay be vaccinated and treated several Dayaks and Chinese in the district He returned to Lubok Antu towards the end of the month. Various Tuai-tuai and Penghulus came to Lubok Antu during the month both to meet the Resident and to help to choose a new Penghulu to replace Penghulu Ramba, who is retiring on pension. Eventually Ngali anak Kijam of Nanga Guran was decided upon. The Dayaks themselves were of little or no help in electing their Penghulu. It is believed that Penghulu Ramba and his brothers are far from pleased al this appointment, which means the Penghuluship leaving their familv. Pengbulus Ramba and Ngindang went on to Kuching in order to interview His Highness the Tuan Muda. A Chinese hawker named Ah Seng, and Tek, his Dayak wife, were murdered at Kerangan Temagun, Spak, on the night of June 3rd. No head was taken. The District Officer visited the scene of the crime on the 26th. Three Dayaks have been detained in connection with this murder; it is suspected that the motive of the crime was robbery. A full report has been forwarded to the Resident, Second Division, and investigation continues. A few cases of chicken-pox were reported in the kampong during the month, otherwise the health of the Saribas district was good. The harvest in the Saribas district is now all in and the results generally are satisfactory. The District Officer reports that during his visits to up river districts he noticed with satisfaction that extensive root crops had been planted. Progress has been made in the experimental vegetable garden at Belong, which now appears to be self-supporting. During the month Malay coolies were employed clearing the first three. miles of the Betong/Simang- gang road. The road from that point to Bukit Sangkoh has been cleared with Dayak labour. Coolie labour was employed filling swamp on the Pok road, and two small temporary bridges were constructed. The main bridge over the S. Entanak was repaired and work was commenced on a number of small bridges on the main road to the Padeh. It is hoped to make this road up before the end of the year. The following are extracts from a report by the District Officer. Saribas, on a trip to the ulu :— "On the 4th, accompanied by Wan Mahadar, Native Officer, Pengarah Isek and three constables, I proceeded up river. The. first night was spent at Batu Lintang, Layar. The following day we entered the Spak and eventually spent the night at N. Tapih. "On the 6th we proceeded overland to Krapa, returning to the mam river on the 7th. and spend¬ ing the night at N. Penyuin. "On the 8th we arrived at Rumah Ulin Leui- paong : there a meeting was held to discuss the position regarding Dayaks living in temporary buildings; it was discovered that three doors had failed to comply with previous orders. No decision was reached that night, the persons con¬ cerned being instructed to present themselves at Batu Pesok at noon the following day. On the 9th at Batu Pesok the position was again discussed, and it was ascertained that a further five doors were still scattered about in temporary huts. "It was perfectly plain that these Spak Dayaks had no intention of complying with the order to return to their long bouses, but were merely playing for time in the hope that I should be transferred before the order could be enforced, and that my successor would take a more lenient view of the situation. "The Dayaks were informed that they would be given 48 hours to evacuate, after which the buildings would be burnt. It is interesting and perhaps amusing to note that in the early hours of the morning, from my mosquito net, I heard Dayaks chatting and one man say—'Of course he won’t burn, its just bluff!' "On the 10th I proceeded overland via S. Teras to Penghulu Igoh’s house at Jambu. Meanwhile a message had been sent to the Resident explain¬ ing the position and requesting approval of my proposals. "On the 11th I walked via S. Antu to Penebak, where the night was spent. The following morning I proceeded down river to N. Tiga where I met the police returning with an answer from the Resident. On the 12th I returned to Penghulu Igoh’s house. "At dawn on the 13th 1 set out for Sadok, having first despatched all my barang by another and direct route to Krapa. The first dampa, one room at the foot of Sadok, was reached at 8.30 a.m. after a stiff climb, and all property having been removed it was sent up in flames at 9 a.m. With their usual gallantry the men had deserted the house, leaving only women and children behind. "Our second objective, a three-room dampa, was reached at 9.30; here we found all the in¬ mates busy carrying out their property, and having given them sufficient time for this purpose, the building was burnt. "We then made our way towards Bukit Em- prudu and en route discovered a one-room hut without any occupants, who must have, fled at our approach. Again all property was removed and the hut burnt. "A three-room dampa between Emprudu and Lempaong was reached at about 1.30 p.m. Most of the property had been removed and placed out¬ side ; the building was deserted though the occupants could be heard moving about in the surrounding babas. The dampa- was burnt, and we made our way via Lempaong to Krapa arriving there at 6 p.m., after a very hot and tiring walk over hilly country. It is estimated that on that day we covered not less than twenty-five miles. "All four buildings were destroyed without encountering any resistance, and no moveable property of value was damaged. " I left Krapa on the 15th and arrived in Belong that evening at 7.30 p.m. "On the 24th, accompanied by the Government Auditor. I proceeded to Pusa in the Santosa and on to Debak early the following morning. On arrival at Debak I received a wireless from the Resident informing me of the Spak murder, and returned immediately overland to Betong. "On the 26th I proceeded up the Spak to in¬ vestigate the murder and relumed to Betong on the 29th." On June 19th the Rev. Father J. Sparrow left on furlough, having completed over four years’ service in the Saribas district. A large crowd was on the wharf to wish him bon voyage and a safe return to Betong. Earlier in the month the Rev. Father H. May¬ cock arrived from England; he will be in charge of the Mission during the Rev. Father Sparrow's absence. On June. 22nd Robert Than of the Junior Service was married at St. Augustine’s Church, Betong, to Hilda Tnay. The subsequent reception was attended by a large number of Government servants and other friends of the bride and bridegroom. The Officer-in-Charge. Kalaka. reports that on June 18th an unfortunate accident happened in Kampong Hilir. When a Malay cannon was fired below a Malay house, the barrel exploded and in¬ jured the Saratok Malay schoolmaser named Mas, and another Malay who was sitting in the house for the purpose of bacha khatani. Luckily no other person was injured. Third Division News. JUNE. Two Coroner's Inquests were held at Sibu during the month , one into the drowning of a male Chinese at Engkilo, and the other into a somewhat unusual occurrence in which a Foochow was burned to death after setting fire to dead grass in bis rubber garden at S. Merah. Findings of death by misadventure were returned in each case. Good progress was made during the month with the construction of the new Sibu hospital. The concrete foundations and piers are completed, and the construction of mild steel reinforcing framework for floors is well in hand. The Clerk of Works visited Song in connection with repair's to Government buildings there, and was still away on a visit to Mukah, Oya and Dalat at the end of the month. During the month police investigations into cases of suspected Foochow Secret Societies were con¬ tinued. One conviction was obtained, and two other men were required to put pledges into Court. One hundred and three in-patients and five hun¬ dred and thirty-four out-patients received  treatment at Sibu hospital and dispensary during June. There were eight deaths. Fifty-three N.A.B. injections and one hundred and six vaccinations were performed. The general health of all communities was good. The Divisional Medical Officer was away from June 15th to 27th with the Travelling District Officer visiting Meluan, Poi, Kabah and the Ngemah. Capt. R. E. Le Sueur, District Officer. Sibu. returned from convalescent leave on June 23rd. Mr. E. M. Selous, Acting Secretary for Chinese Affairs, visited Sibu in connection with Chinese affairs from June 16th to 25th. Mr. J. 1'. Baird, Municipal Commissioner, accom¬ panied by Mrs. Baird, visited Sibu from the 4th to 11th. Commander Hardy, R.N., of H.M.S. Herald, accompanied by three other officers, visited Sibu on the 27th. Lieutenant Tripp, R.N., of H.M.S. Herald and five naval ratings paid a visit to Sibu on the 20th. District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports that two Binatang Foochows were fined S350 for replanting rubber, and that a Mohammedan Foochow was sentenced to three months’ imprisonment for theft from the workshop of the Island Trading Co., Selalang. There was no serious crime in the Lower Rejang district during the month. On the 29th, on receipt of news of the Spak murder, Second Division, patrols were sent off to the Sarik, ulu Sarikei, Wak, Julau, and ulu Binatang. During June large number of Dayaks came down to the bazaars in the Lower Rejang district to sell their rubber. It was noticed that the ulu Julau people, only recently brought into the district, were well represented, so it seems that the previous objections to this measure are without foundation. A report that Julau Dayaks had pulled down their house and deserted it was investigated by Native Officer Abang Openg, and found to be untrue. The pepper harvest is now commencing. It is not yet possible to estimate the crop, but early reports indicate that it will be poor both at Sarikei and Binatang. Agricultural Inspector Ibrahim bin Sedik arrived in Sarikei on June 2nd for duty in the Lower Rejang district. He took over control of the experimental vegetable garden, visited Matu and two in connection with sago pests, and made several short visits to the pepper areas. It is reported that the pig-poison recently delivered to sago-owners on the coast is proving effective. Following the issue of rubber replanting notices, 24 applications for replanting were received, covering 56 gardens. The rubber inspectors were ordered to examine, these gardens and report, but with one exception they are not proving very good at the work. It is felt that more and better trained inspectors will be required. Reconstruction of the Binatang New Bazaar road was completed during-the month. Repair work on the Jakar road is nearly complete, and only gravelling remains to be done. Sarikei municipal roads are in fair condition. A contract was given out for further earth-filling to Repok and Wharf roads. The contractor started making covers for the Sarikei storage tanks. Water ran short, however, during June, and the motor-lighter started carrying water down from Leba'an on the 23rd, and was still running regularly at the end of the month. Water sold to the public amounted to 4,560 gallons, and 4,800 gallons were supplied to Government quarters and the shore party of H.M.S. Herald. Contracts were signed for the construction of three Junior Service quarters at Sarikei, and some materials are now on the site. There is some delay in the work, as the sizes of timbers were changed on instructions from Kuching, and the sawmill was unable to supply the new sizes at short notice. Instructions were received from the Shipping Master to erect a harbour beacon at Jerijeh, Kuala Rejang. This has not yet been done, as the exact position of the light is still under consideration. The clearing round Sirik light was inspected. The work appears to be complete when seen from the lighthouse, but unfortunately it was not practic¬ able to make a proper observation from out to sea, us M.L. Irene developed serious engine trouble. The Shipping Master has been asked to obtain in¬ formation from coasting steamers regarding the sufficiency of the clearing. The Land Settlement Officer. Sarikei, reports steady progress in settlement and ordinary land work, and mentions that land revenue in Sarikei for the month reached a high record of more than $2,500. Binatang land revenue also was very satisfactory, totalling over $3,000. A complaint was received from the Daro Bazaar traders that with the dying-out of the sago trade in their district, they were approaching bankruptcy, since all the rubber is being bought up by the garden shops at Kurt Saa'i, Bruit, and elsewhere. The Resident has agreed that licences for dealing in rubber should be restricted to recognized bazaar areas, and it is hoped that this measure will save Daro from extinction. The new Malay vernacular schools built by the Kampong people at Daro and Belawai are now ready, and will open as soon as books are received from the Secretary for Native Affairs. The District Officer, Kapit, reports that Peng¬ hulus Grinang, Manok Manchal, Atan and Bedimbab visited Kapit during the month. On June 13th two strange Dayaks were reported being seen at Sungei Amang above Kapit. Corporal Osman and four police were sent out in the out¬ board to investigate, but no traces were found. Dayaks in the Kapit district are still busy felliug, and very few of the upriver tribes came down during the month. The District Officer, Mukah, reports that an inquiry was held into the Judan robbery case, but insufficient evidence was available to prefer a charge. It is strongly suspected that the owner of the house himself faked the robbery in collaboration with a local goldsmith in order to try and make away with numerous pledges taken from kampong people as debt security. The owners of these pledges have been advised to claim their value in the Civil Courts, as their creditor is responsible for their safe keeping Examination of the house made it fairly clear that an outside robber would have found it extremely difficult (if not impossible) to have com¬ mitted the crime. A further case of grave robbery was reported in a graveyard at Kuala Petanak. Several arrests have been made, including a local goldsmith (the one suspected in the Judan house robbery), against whom there is very strong evidence. Further inquiries are proceeding. It is regrettable that the Tua Kampong has been of little help, rather the reverse, in fact, and it is suspected that he is cither shielding the guilty parties or is concerned himself. An examination of the graves opened showed that the robbery was extensive, no less than 37 graves being opened over a period of about two months or mure. The method of opening the graves is to cut around the surface with a parang, after which the earth is shovelled out, together with the numerous plates lying about as offerings to the dead. Tua Kampong Haji Zahwi has been appointed temporarily in charge of Kampong Tutus Hilir in place of Haji Bujang, deceased, and has been recommended for permanent charge of this kam¬ pong in addition to others. All the Mukah kampongs were visited by the District Officer on June 24th and various matters were discussed, chiefly regarding land. All were informed that registers of kampong lots (in approved kampong reserves) are being started, and no transfer without a deed will he recognised. All kampongs were visited by the Disrict Officer during the month, and a meeting was held in each Tua Kampong's house and the Agricultural Show arranged for His Highness the Rajah's birthday was further explained. Natives were urged not to put all their hopes into sago, but to plant vegetables and raise poultry, if possible, as well. Numbers of them applied for seeds, but these have not yet arrived from the Agricultural Department. The Foochow colony and rubber gardens at Skoyan wen- inspected by the District Officer on .June 24th. There are about 200 Foochows in all, owning about 80 acres of very good rubber about 10 years old. and they also rear pigs and have extensive vegetable plots and appear a hardworking and pros¬ perous colony. Mr. Philip Jitam. Clerk of Works. Sibu, visited Mukah station on June 30th. He inspected all buildings, etc., and advised on necessary repairs. He also visited the pumping station and was asked to try and prepare some plan to remove the sediment and colour from the water. The river bank erosion along the proposed blubor sites was inspected, and Mr. Jitam agreed that in order to save these sites (which is essential, and will have to be done quickly) a major work will have to be designed by an expert, as amateur attempts in tins form construction generally prove a waste of money. It was also decided to abandon a section of road on the river bank in Kampong Boyan, further repair of which is impossible owing to heavy erosion. An estimate for 1937 will be submitted to take up the water mains along the road to the wharf, and relay them from another section of mains via the Fort. With the kind assistance of Mr. Bormond of the Sarawak Elect ricity Supply Co. the new Shipping Light was erected at Mukah on June 12th. wired up. tested and found satisfactory. The light should give a good range of vision at sea, but is probably obscured to the West by high trees at Kuala Lama. An estimate has been submitted in 1937 estimates to have them felled. The old light at the Kuala was stopped as from 30th and the keeper (Ngang) retired. This means that flag signals to inform inspecting officers and the public of approach of vessels will have to stop also; these signals also informed shipping of the stole of the tide. The District. Officer, Oya and Dalat, reports that no serious crime occurred in his district during the month. The Dalat Dresser paid two visits to Oya during the month and also visited Kampongs Bakong and Teh for purposes of vaccination, etc. The work of converting the old offices at Dalat into a dispensary and small hospital was completed early in the month. The building is satisfactory. The following are the figures for the month :— 186 persons were vaccinated 29 N.A.B. injections were given 82 out-patients were treated. The bazaar and government quarters were inspected and found to be clean and in order. The general health of the district was good. All has been quiet in the ulu Oya throughout the month. Tax is still coining in. Melanau fishing has been in full swing, but the catches have been poor. A large shark has been causing considerable damage to nets. The price of raw sago increased on the figures for last, month by 5 cents per passu, the figures being 67 cents per passu at Kut, and 56 cents per passu at Dalat. The amount of raw sago exported from the dis¬ trict increased during the month, the figures being :—  This shows a total increase of 190 1/2 koyans above the total exports for last month. Three motor schooners, three motor launches, six schooners and twenty-seven bandongs cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 744 tons, an increase over the figures for last month of 162 tons. Fourth Division News. JUNE. Mr. E. E. F. Pretty, M.C.S., passed through Miri on June 14th en route for Brunei on affairs con¬ nected with His Highness the Sultan. Mr. H. Hugbes-Hallet, M.C.S., Assistant Resident, Brunei, met him in Miri. Mr. D. C. White arrived in Miri on June 23rd for duty as Assistant District Officer. On the last day of the month Native Officer Bijak retired on pension. This gentleman had been in Government Service since 1906, and during the past few years was second Native Officer at Miri. He was a useful and loyal Government servant. The District Officer, Miri, reports that apart from a case of illicit distillation of arrack there were no criminal cases of note during June. There was a positive plague of flies at Miri towards the end of the month due, no doubt, to ideal breed¬ ing weather. Steps, however, were taken, and the position now shews great improvement. The District Officer, Miri, records with regret the death of Lai Yin Mun, lately Court Interpreter, Miri, who was invalided from the Junior Service a few weeks ago. Yin Mun. who had eight years and two months' service with Government to his credit, was returning home to Canton, but died in Hong Kong General Hospital en route. Birds'-nests exported from Niah to date total 149.05 pikuls, and guano for this collection comes to 392.39 pikuls. Sudden storms marked the end of the month at Miri, and a certain amount of damage was done to fishing craft. There was one fatal accident as a result of a storm on the 27th. There was an appeal from the Bintulu District Court to the Resident’s Court in a case of Dayak incest. The decision of the District Court was reversed. The District Officer, Bintulu, reports that a young hull calf belonging to the Bintulu Government herd was found slabbed with a spear on the Tanjong Batu road. Steps have been taken to trace the offender or offenders, but nothing has been proved to date. On June 2nd the Resident, Fourth Division, visited Bintulu, and numerous Dayaks and Malays put their requests before him. The requests were mostly from Dayaks, who wished to move into land which is reserved for Malays and Punans, and had been refused permission to do so by the District Officer. In all such cases their requests were not granted. The Resident also visited Tatau and Sebauh. where he heard all complaints and requests put forward by the natives. There was nothing of importance to report . I’he Local Order which forbade Chinese boat traders trading in the Jelalong, Labang and Tubau rivers was repealed after consultation with the Resident during his visit to Bintulu. Mr. W. H. Avery has announced his intention of opening up a small plant at Bintulu for the purpose of sawing attaps of belian and other woods. The demand for attaps is always greater than the supply, and it is hoped that Mr. Avery’s sawn attaps will prove the argument us to whether these are better than split ones. After the long experience of the Sarawak Oilfields in using and preferring sawn attaps. it is surprising that so few other concerns have given them a trial. The Native Officer, Baram, reports that on the evening of June 9th a Chinese employee of a shop in Baram bazaar was badly burnt all over the body while lighting a Petromax lamp. He was sent to Miri hospital, where he died the following day. The District Officer, Limbang and Lawas, reports that the general health of his district was good during June. S.C. Awang remained seriously ill in Brunei hospital with what was originally diag¬ nosed as typhoid. Early in the month Constable Mohamed, who had previously suffered from fever hut had been discharged from hospital also went down with the same complaint. He, too. became seriously ill. and was transferred to Brunei hospital. For a long time S.C. Awang was in a very critical condition. At the end of the month both men were discharged and returned to Limbang, hut on the orders of the Medical Officer, Brunei, they were granted further convalescent leave, and are not yet back on duty. It appears that previous to their ill¬ ness these two men spent a night in the buffalo slaughter-house waiting for thieves who bad removed some rubber from the Customs Godown the night before, and had concealed it near the ara tree overhanging the slaughter-house; it is suspected that they were infected that night. The actual cause of their illness is unknown, and although typhoid was first definitely diagnosed, the Medical Officer later diagnosed "para-typhoid." It was first suspected that they had drunk some water from the small stream under the slaughter-house, but this was denied by the patients, and there is certainly no reason why they should drink from a dirty stream when water is laid on to the slaughter-house by pipe. Local superstition blames the hantu in the ara tree, so the actual cause of this serious illness remains unsolved. The District Officer. Limbang and Lawas, records with much regret the death from pneumonia in Limbang hospital of S.C. Brahim. This constable was a young man who had only been in the force just over a year; the son of Awang Damit of local fame, he was a very intelligent and promising member of the Constabulary. All Dayaks and other up-river natives in the Limbang District were busy before the end of the month on the clearing of their new farms. and had ceased to tap rubber some time while before the tapping holiday commenced on June 19th. The Limbang pepper crop seems very satisfactory, but the price is most disappointing. It is expected that owing to the increased number of tapping holidays, the Malays and other local natives will plant padi on a more extensive scale this year. The pontoon used on the Brunei road ferry was put on the slipway and reconditioned. Advantage was taken of the fine weather prevail¬ ing in the second half of the month to do consider¬ able repairs to the Panderuan and Berawan roads. On June 8th Mr. Scott. Assistant District Officer, Lawas, arrived at Limbang accompanied by the Native Officers of Lawas and Trusan and Penghulus and other Murut representatives for a discussion with Limbang Murut Penghulus on their customs and adat generally. All points of difference were settled in two days. Mr. Tolley of the Borneo Evangelical Mission accompanied Mrs. Tolley as far as Labuan op her way to Singapore, and then returned to the Mission in the Lubai. Two cases of voluntarily causing hurt came before the Lawns District Court during the month. There were, in addition, three cases of theft and one of forgery. The Assistant District Officer remarks that six criminal cases in a month in Lawas constitute almost a crime wave. The Assistant District Officer. Lawas and Trnsan. visited the Tagals in the ulu Merapok during the month. This small community seems as prosperous us ever. Three new. and very fine, houses have been completed since his last visit, and everyone is cheerful and contented. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 22,176 lbs. of dry rubber during the month.  