Local and Personal NOVEMBER. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valeric arrived at Kuching on November 23rd. having travelled from Singapore by s.s. Vyner Brooke. As this vessel passed Fort Margherita at about 10.15 a.m. a salute of twenty-one guns was fired from the Fort Battery, and as soon as she dropped anchor opposite Astana the Siamese State Barge came alongside with His Highness the Tuan Muda. Mr H. B. Crocker, Acting Govern¬ ment Secretary, Mr. H. M. Calvert, Acting Treasurer of Sarawak, Mr. W. F. Dick, Resident, First Division, and His Highness the Rajah's Aide-de-Camp on board. After an exchange of greetings His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie were rowed in the State Barge to the Astana pengkalan, where they were met by members of the Committee" of Administration and Supreme Council. After His Highness the Rajah had in¬ spected the Constabulary guard of honour which was drawn up on Astana lawn under the command of the Adjutant, His Highness proceeded to Astana, where Heads of Govern¬ ment Departments and representatives of all communities—European, Malay, Chinese, Japanese, and Indian—were gathered. Re¬ freshments were served, and after a short speech of welcome the healths of His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie were proposed by Mr. H. B. Crocker and drunk by all present. His Highness replied in a few words and shortly afterwards the guests dispersed. We take this opportunity of welcoming His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie back to Sarawak. Advice has been received by telegram that Her Highness the Ranee sailed from Marseilles in the P.&O. s.s. Rajputana on November 13th. Her Highness is expected to arrive in Kuching on December 7th. On November 5th a daughter was born to the Earl and Countess of Inchcape, to whom we tender our congratulations. On hearing the good news the Government Secretary despatched the following telegram to the Government Agent. London :— "Please convey to Dayang Leonora and Lord Inchcape congratulations of Sarawak Government officers and all communities on birth of daughter.” and on November 30th the following letter was received from the Countess of Inchcape (Dayang Leonora):  91, PARK STREET, Mayfair, W.l, November 17th. "DEAR MR. CROCKER, I want to thank you and the Sarawak Government officers for your kind cable of congra¬ tulations on the birth of our daughter Rosemary. Will you please convey to everyone as best you can on behalf of Lord Inchcape and myself our sincere thanks at your kind interest in our family ? Yours sincerely, LEONORA." His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne, who are travelling to Europe by air, left for Singapore by s.s. Darnel on Novem¬ ber 28th. Both His Highness and Dayang Anne originally intended to return to Europe via China and Siberia, but the receipt of dis¬ quieting news regarding the health of the Ranee Margaret caused them to change their plans. Her Highness the Ranee’s autobiography, which has recently been published, has been very favourably reviewed in the Press. We print one of the notices elsewhere in this issue. The book, the title of which is "Sylvia of Sarawak : an Autobiography," is published by Messrs. Hutchinson at 18/-. It is, of course, of particular interest to those ac¬ quainted with Sarawak, but the subject- matter is so interesting and it is so entertain¬ ingly written that it has a general appeal, and will be appreciated, we are sure, by a very wide circle of readers. Major W. C. Adams, Commandant of the British North Borneo Armed Constabulary, spent a week-end in Kuching on his way from Singapore to Jesselton as the guest of Mr. D. V. Murphy. Another visitor to Kuching during the month was Mr. J. A. P. Strachan, the Chairman of Directors of United Engineers. Ltd. November was distinguished by the unusual number of Europeans who returned from furlough. These included Mr. and Mrs. E. Parnell, Mr. and Mrs. A. W. G. Gibson, Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Daubeny, and Mr. D. MacDonald, Manager of Sungei Tengah Estate. Captain and Mrs. C. P. Lowe also arrived back in Kuching after a trip to Japan, Captain Lowe having recently been granted six week’s sick leave. Mr. E. Parnell resumed duty in the Treasury on November 23rd, and Mr. H. M. Calvert, who had been acting as Treasurer of Sarawak during Mr. Parnell’s absence on furlough, took over the Trade and Customs Department from Mr. L. D. Kennedy on the 25th. Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy left on furlough by s.s. Darvel on November 28th. On Saturday, November 28th, the St. Andrew's Society of Sarawak held their annual celebration in the shape of a dinner and dance at the Sarawak Club. The guests , assembled in the main hall of the Chib at 8.30 p.m. for paints, and about three-quarters of an hour later no less than seventy persons sat down to an excellent dinner, complete, of course, with the traditional haggis, The traditional accompaniment, too? was not wanting, and served to bring out the best in the excellent fare provided. The “Pious Memory of St. Andrew” and “The Rajah" were proposed by Mr. James Scott, the Chieftain; Mr. Boyd proposed "The King," and Messrs, Dickson and Cordiner gave us “The Guests” and “The Lassies” respectively, each toast being pre¬ ceded with an admirable speech. Mr. Crocker replied on behalf of the guests, and Mrs. Calvert gave a neat and pointed reply to “The Lassies.” After dinner, reels, petronellas and other barbaric dances were performed to the strains of the pipes.—produced through the agency of a wax disc and the Club’s amplifier With so many Scotsmen among us it seems a pity that Kuching cannot produce even one wee chanter,—particularly since so much of our musical talent comes from the Scots community. Nevertheless the ersatz pipes of the amplifier produced the true hie'land at¬ mosphere, and the festivities continued until the small hours; in some cases, indeed, it is whispered that they continued until the following day On the Sunday morning the Scots look on the Sassenachs at golf and beat them 8 1/2 to 4 1/2, thereby proving, in Kuching at any rate, that the Sassenachs are as much a match for them at their national game as they are at their national drink. But after the delight¬ ful evening the Sassenachs had enjoyed they did not grudge their hosts of the previous night their victory. We extend a hearty welcome to Mr. D. MeNiven who arrived in Kuching on Novem¬ ber 9th in order to take over the Agency of the Chartered Bank from Mr. J. M. Allan, who sailed on home leave on November 26th. As it is unlikely that Mr. Allan will be returning to Sarawak, we take this oppor¬ tunity of wishing him bon voyage and the best of luck in the future. Mr. R. L. Daubeny has been appointed District Officer, Kuching, and has taken over the affairs of the Kuching District from Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, who has been appointed to act as Travelling District Officer. First Division. The Vyner Brooke had an exceptionally rough passage when bringing His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie from Singa¬ pore ; seas were breaking over the forecastle even before the ship passed the Horsburgh light, and when she reached the open sea conditions became very much worse. The rough weather, however, did not delay her, and she dropped anchor opposite Astana punctually at 10.30 a.m. on the 23rd. We welcome to Sarawak Mr. and Mrs. H. P. Lansdale-Ruthven, who arrived at Kuching on November 9th. Mr. Ruthven has been appointed Legal Adviser and Registrar, Supreme Court. On November 12th an R.A.F. flying boat arrived at Pending from Singapore with Squadron-Leaders L. Darvall and R. A. George and several other R.A.F. officers. She returned to Singapore the following morning. The second anniversary of the Sylvia Cinema occurred on November 24th, and elsewhere in this issue will be found a brief review of some of the films that have been shown there during the past two years. The Sylvia Cinema has proved of immense value to all communities and has long been recog¬ nized as one of the greatest amenities of Kuching. This year for the first time we shall be able to send Hari Raya and Christmas greeting telegrams inside Sarawak at the remarkably low cost of 25 cents for the first ten words and 3 cents for each extra word. It will be interesting to see the extent to which the public will avail itself of this new service. On November 6th the Rev. Father J. Staal, Rector of the R.C. Mission, Serian, returned from European furlough by s.s. Borebat, and proceeded to Serian a few days later. Mr. A. F. Baughan arrived at. Kuching on November 30th to take over the manage¬ ment of Messrs. Sime, Darby & Co., Ltd., from Mr. G. J. Dickson, who is shortly leav¬ ing to become Manger of the firm’s branch at Ipoh. Mr. Baughan, of course, was Assis¬ tant Manager of Sime, Darby’s local branch in 1929 and 1930, and wc welcome him back to Sarawak. STOP PRESS. We announce with the deepest regret that on the morning of December 2nd a telegram was received communicating the news of the death of Her Highness the Ranee Margaret. Government offices throughout the State were immediately closed as a mark of respect, and flags were half-masted, and in Kuching the Sylvia Cinema was closed on the night of December 2nd on His Highness the Rajah’s personal instructions. His Highness the Rajah has directed that mourning is to be worn by all Government officers for a period of one week, commencing from December 2nd. We understand that the funeral of Her Highness the Ranee Margaret will take place at South Ascot on Saturday, December 5th, in accordance with Her late Highness’ wishes. The funeral service will be held in London on December 4th. On behalf of all our readers we take this opportunity of extending to His Highness the Rajah and all members of His Highness’ family our deepest and most sincere sympathy in their great loss. An obituary notice appears below. HER HIGHNESS THE RANEE MARGARET. OBITUARY. We announce with the most profound regret the death of Her Highness the Ranee Margaret, which occurred at her home in England on December 1st. Until only a few weeks ago Her Highness had been in the best, of health and spirits, but towards the end of November she had a sudden illness, and her condition gave rise to serious anxiety. On receipt, of this news His Highness the Tuan Muda, who had intended to travel to Europe via Siberia, changed his plans and decided to fly home, but the end came earlier than was expected. A telegram received on November 30th stated that although the Rance Margaret’s condition showed very little change, she was gradually losing ground, and at 9 p.m. on December 1st an announcement on the Wireless News conveyed to His Highness the Rajah and the people of Sarawak the sad tidings that the Ranee Margaret had died some twelve hours earlier. This was confirmed by telegram on the following morning. The Ranee Margaret was born in Paris on October 9th, 1649. She spent her childhood at the Chateau d’Epinay-sur-Orge, the home of the Baronne de Windt, whose name her English father subsequently took on marrying into the family. Later on the Chateau d’Epinay was sold and the Ranee Margaret and her parents came to live in Wiltshire. In 1869 she first met Sir Charles Brooke (then Mr. Brooke) who was her mother’s cousin and who two years previously had succeeded Sir James Brooke as second Rajah of Sarawak. The Rajah and she were married on October 28th, 1869, after a somewhat unconventional courtship, and a few months later they set sail Tor Sarawak. The Rance was a woman of quite exceptional courage and good humour, and it was as well that she possessed these qualities since Sarawak in 1870 was no bed of roses for a girl of twenty accustomed to the life of a French Chateau and an English country house. Amenities which we now take for granted were then non-existent, and conditions generally were primitive in the extreme: indeed, it is difficult to imagine the reactions of a young Englishwoman such as the Ranee suddenly trans¬ ported from the grace and calm of the English countryside to the Sarawak of nearly seventy years ago. The experience must have been a trifle over¬ whelming, to say the least of it. hut any fears that the Rajah may have entertained regarding his young bride’s attitude to the new and strange fife to which he was bringing her were soon dispelled. The Ranee Margaret loved Sarawak from the first moment of her arrival, and this love, which was deep-rooted and true, remained undimmed to (lie end. Her writings describe her feelings of wonder and delight at her first glimpse of the coast, and thia sense of joyous adventure survived all the monotony that is an inevitable concomitant of life in a small settlement in the tropics, and enabled her to find fresh interest and amusement in every day that passed. It was indeed a case of love at first sight; in Sarawak and its people she found something that made a deep appeal to her warm and generous nature, something that struck a responsive chord in her heart and evoked all the sympathy and understanding that she could bestow in such overflowing measure. And her love was abundantly returned The Malays, who were instantly her friends and whose confidence she gained at her first meeting with them, treasure her memory to this day. They saw in her not the wife of a European ruler, regal and remote, but a gracious lady who identified herself heart and soul with the country of her adoption, and who put the interests of its people always before her own. So greatly did she value her friendship with the Malays, and so deeply did she treasure the memory of her association with them, that in her later years she never tired of hearing news of her Malay friends, their children, and their children’s children; and only a few weeks before her death she sent to the Malays of Sarawak a message of greeting and affection, saying that although it was such a long time since she had seen them, and although she lived so far away, she would never forget them, and hoped that they would not forget her. She need have had no fear. The European community of Kuching in the year of the Ranee Margaret’s arrival consisted of three married couples and five or six bachelors. Communications with the outside world were irregular and uncertain, most of the comforts of civilised life were larking, and amusements were few. The Ranee Margaret, however, instead of lapsing into boredom, made her own amusements, and found in the country and in the Malay’s an inexhaustible store of intereat. She was adored by the Malay ladies of Kuching, who frequented the Astana regularly, and who delighted in her society, and did much to relieve what must otherwise have seen a life of some loneliness; in those troubled days the Rajah was often absent for long periods either on expeditions, or else attending to out- station problems. The Ranee, however, did not always stay in Kuching,—even in those days of rough and uncertain travel she managed to visit outstations, and indeed she was onoe confined in Sibu fort during a scare that followed Lintong’s abortive attack. In her own account of this episode the Ranee tells how she and Ima, her little Malay maid, took refuge behind a piano while Sepoys and native fortmen loaded cannon and manned the loop-holes of the fort under the direction of Mr. Skelton, the Resident, who had successfully driven off Lintong’s forces a short while before.—An unusual experience for a voting married woman straight from England ! The Ranee also paid visits to Mukah and to Simang- gang, where she witnessed her first display of Dayak dancing, and where she was a trifle taken aback to see one of the performers nonchalantly produce a smoked head at one stage of the dance as though it were nothing more unusual than a pair of castanets. In April, 1875. the Ranee Margaret accom¬ panied the Rajah on his first visit to the Baram river, which at that time was a totally unknown and unexplored river under the rule—or rather mis¬ rule—of the Sultan of Brunei. This was such a remarkable journey that it is impossible to do justice to it here, and the Ranee’s own story of it is reproduced on another page. It makes' fasci¬ nating reading, and is a good example of the Ranee's courage and love of adventure. In the Ranee Margaret were united a vigorous intellect, a most vital personality, and an out- standing physical beauty. She was gifted by nature with a number of accomplishments, the chief of which was probably her skill at music, for which she had a profound love and a marked gift. At the tender age of four she first began to play the piano; at five could read music, and at seven she was launched into concerted music, and could take the piano parts of Mozart’s easier trios. Among her teachers were celebrities such as Arabella Goddard, Charles Hallé and even Thal- berg, all of whom spoke highly of her talents, and in later life she counted among her friends Edward Elgar, the composer, and W. H. Read, the well- known violinist. Tn 1931. at the age of 82, she was chosen with W. H. Read to record the Kreutzer sonata for the gramophone, and a year or two later she gave an organ recital at Queen’s Hall! According to Montaigne, It is the bodie which sometimes yeeldeth first unto age, and other times the mind’.—but in the Ranee Margaret’s case it was neither; until her last illness her magnificent vitality remained unimpaired. She refused to give way to advancing years, and until the end she remained what she had always been,— a very great lady such as we shall not easily see again in our time. The Ranee Margaret lived every phase of her life to the full, and got the best from each moment of it. Now, at the close of the long day, night has come, and she has fallen asleep. But though it is night, and she sleeps, her memory lives on. In her last book she wrote that when her time came, she hoped that a recording angel with a pen steeped in love and beauty might pass by where she rested and inscribe the word “Sarawak” in great golden letters across her heart. Her wish has surely come to pass, and just as surely must she know that her own name is written indelibly in the hearts of Sarawak's people. The Late Ranee Margaret. As a tribute to the memory of Her Highness the late Ranee Margaret we print below her own account of her visit to the Baram River in 1875,—surely one of the most remark¬ able journeys ever undertaken by an English¬ woman. The account is taken from her book “Good Morning and Good Night,” published by Messrs. Constable in 1934 :— Shortly after our return the Rajah decided to visit the Baram River, taking with him Mr. de Crespigny, the Borneo Company's Agent, my brother Mr. Harry de Windt and myself. The territory which lie intended to explore was situated further north than Sarawak’s most northerly possession, Bintulu, in Borneo, and was still at that time ruled over by the Sultan of Brunei. Now the tribe inhabiting the regions at the head of the Baram River were called Kayans, and were much given to foraging about and falling foul of Dyaks and other tribes who were subjects of the Rajah. As the Sultan of Brunei appeared to be powerless to control these Kayans and the outbreaks of hostilities were becoming all too frequent, the Rajah decided to go there, get in touch with the offending tribe and try to bring about a better state of things for everybody concerned, but especially for his own people who were being so constantly harassed. I don’t believe he quite knew what he would find there or what he was going to do. but he realized that the Kayans were badly governed and out of control, and would probably be glad to do us so many other tribes had done and become his subjects. Whatever was in the Rajah's mind, we all knew better than to ask him any questions, Had one of us attempted to do so the offender would no doubt have speedily found himself (or herself !) seated in one of the dinghies of the Heartsease being borne rapidly back to Kuching. Therefore as we sped on our journey, the sea being calm, we talked of shoes and ships and sealing-wax, of cabbages and kings, but never of the object of our quest. All that the Rajah vouchsafed to Mr. de Crespigny, when we were at breakfast that    first    day. was    that    he    was taking me with him in order to impress upon the inhabitants of the Baram River district that his mission was a peaceful one, to which information we answered “Oh!" and went on eating. Funnily enough the prospect of a journey into unknown and savage country, peopled by totally ungovernable tribes, had no terror for me, so absolutely confident was I in my husband’s ability to deal with blood¬ thirsty and uncivilized offenders. Sometimes I almost longed for a slight spice of danger in such, to me, novel undertakings. But no! I always felt perfectly safe! When we arrived at the mouth of the hitherto unexplored Baram, members of the crew were sent off in ship’s boats to take soundings, to enable us to enter its uncharted waters. After hours of test¬ ing, when I saw at each dip the sounding poles standing high above the watermark with only a depth of two or three feet even at high tide, I began to despair, and think that we might be kept examin- ing the shallow entrance for days or even weeks, for I knew that the Rajah's patience was infinite and that he would not be turned back from accomplish¬ ing the purpose he had in view. There he sat with his three men companions, all smoking their horrible Manila cigars and staring at the unknown coast, debating about the possibilities of future trade in the fertile country inland. How little then did my husband foresee the benefits which would be con¬ ferred on Sarawak’s revenues in years to come by the discovery of the vast oil-fields on the sandy shores they gazed at from the deck of the Heartsease. At last, after many hours, shouts of triumph were heard from the exploring boats. The men waved their oars in the air; a channel had been found. But, alas, the yacht could not make her way in owing to her overdraught of water. However, the Borneo Company’s steamer, Sri Sarawak, which had accompanied the Heartsease in view of such a contingency, being able to negotiate the shallows, we all transferred into it, and slowly, very slowly, found ourselves over the bar and at last inside the river. The Heartsease was left outside at anchor, and we crawled along with infinite caution on our way up stream. Mr. de Crespigny, pencil and paper in hand, seated himself on the bridge in order to make a chart as the quartermaster called out bis soundings. Up and up we went. Now and then, beyond the vast forest lands, we would get glimpses of mountains blue in the distance. At first the course of the river was pretty straight. Then it began to wiggle and waggle in and out of its many bends, giving Mr. de Crespigny and his pencil a good deal of work. We were making for a somewhat important village called Batu Gading (Ivory Rock), which, the Rajah had been told by some of bis Kayan subjects near Kuching, stood a good way up. We parsed several villages, some long houses made of palm leaves with wooden walls were propped up by posts which at high tide stood in the water. Men, women and children were moving about, some of them pounding rice on the broad verandahs, while others paddled themselves about in canoes. They betrayed no surprise at the appearance of what, to them, was a hitherto unknown object—a ship with a smoking funnel steaming up their river. The Rajah pulled out his handkerchief and waved it repeatedly as we passed each village, bidding us all to do the same. The natives waved to us in return. We were getting along nicely and my husband was enjoying himself. That evening we anchored off one of these villages, but no sign of life appeared outside. As night came on and the sky was filled with stars, the most awful wails and shrieks began to issue from the wooden walls of the one long house which constituted the village. A corpse was lying inside and they were wailing for their dead. We had to stay where we had anchored as it was too dark for us to proceed, but what a gruesome night we spent! Even when we hauled up anchor at daybreak the wailing was still going on. "Ah, yes," said Mr. de Crespigny cheerily, as we steamed away, “in the midst of life we are in death !" The Rajah, who knew most of the customs of the different peoples of those parts, thought it likely that they belonged to a tribe called Muruts, whose custom it is on death occasions for the females to sit on the verandah opposite the room of the departed, cover their heads with cloths, and wail and moan, while the men visit each other and drink. The heads of the near female relations of the corpse are then shaved, after which the deceased is pushed into a large jar, the top is closed down and the jar is then covered with red cloth edged with tinsel. In the case of a chief ten years may elapse before the jar is buried in their graveyard, the ceremony being accompanied by much firing of guns and many rejoicings, In the interval between the death and the burial, the jar is placed on a wooden platform, erected a few yards from the house. My brother wished that he. could have had a peep at the cere¬ mony, unknown to the people, but I thought it all very gruesome and was thankful to get away from the scene. We continued our slow progress for three whole days, after which we began to wonder whether we should ever reach our goal. Even the Rajah showed alight signs of impatience. At last, at sunset on the fourth day, on turning a sharp bend we saw a great steep rock sticking out of the bed of the river near the shore. Along the bank by the water stood a very long house on poles, covering the bank for about a quarter of a mile. Evidently the village of a very large tribe. It was to us a welcome sight. We had evidently arrived. Many canoes, large and small, were tied up to posts, but there was a deserted look along the banks and on the terrace of the house (or village). After some time we made out through our field-glasses a group of some fifty or sixty men emerging from   the   forest near by  and   making   their way to the house. Splendid fellows they were, with spears and shields and warlike accoutrements. Their caps bristled with hornbill plumes, their hair looked as though glued down their backs, their ears, weighted down by leaden earrings, hung down to their shoulders, while the upper part was studded with tiger-cats teeth which looked like reversed horns. Some of their armlets were of ivory, and dozens of bangles covered their arms and legs. Their jackets were made of bide; their chawats twisted round their waists, taking the place of drawers. ended in a drapery front and back. Their sword sheaths were decorated with feathers and brass; they held spears in their hands. The whole effect was warlike, formidable and very picturesque. Roth my husband and Mr. de Crespigny were of the opinion that they had just returned from some head¬ hunting expedition in the neighbourhood. They paid no attention whatever to the steamer, but quietly passed it by and made their way up the forty-foot bamboo giving entrance to the house and disappeared inside. Silence followed. The river ran past us to the sea. Night was coming on, and there we were in a wilderness of wood and water— not a sound to be heard. "What do you think of it, de Crespigny?" said my husband at dinner. "I think, Rajah, there must be Brunei influence at work, and, with your permission, I will call on the Chief at the house to-morrow and inform him that you wish to see him on board.” The Rajah approved of this suggestion and Mr. de Crespigny was accordingly rowed ashore next morning. He was about to climb the pole to the house when three Kayans appeared at the top of it and waved to him to proceed no further. The three Kayans then came down the ladder, fully armed with spears and swords, and as they reached the ground Mr. de Crespigny took hold of each in turn and pushed him into the boat. They made no resistance and soon found themselves in the presence of the Rajah on the deck of the Sri Sarawak. They were fine-looking men, fairer and stouter than the Dyaks, all in full war¬ paint. and quiet and dignified in their greetings to the Rajah and myself when we touched the tips of each other’s fingers. The conversation, intrepreted by Mr. de Crespigny, was something like this, the Chief of the village being the spokesman. "Rajah Sarawak he very big man. Why he come here?" "I have come to pay you a visit," said the Rajah. "When can I go to your house?” "Oh, Rajah— very sad,” was the reply. "Rajah cannot come in just now. House is pemali” (under a curse). "No one from outside can come in for days.” “Then I will wait until days pass,” said the Rajah in a quiet and determined way. The Chief said nothing, but looked down and scratched himself. The Rajah then said, "Have you any strangers staying with you now?" The Chief looked uncomfortable and hen replied, "Yes, there are two Malays, sent from the Sultan, but they are pemali too. They are shut up—they must not leave the house.” "Very well,” said my husband. "Now you may go." The trio then took their departure after once more touching the tips of our fingers. They went down the com¬ panion, were rowed ashore in the boat, went up the bamboo ladder into the house and disappeared. "The Sultan of Brunei must have been told of my intended visit here," said the Rajah. "But here I remain until I get into the village and have a talk with the people.” What rather puzzled my husband and Mr. de Crespigny, however, was the fact of the inhabitants having resorted to the pemali, so that no strangers should be allowed to enter the walls of the house. I rather forget how many days we remained at anchor in the river below the long house at Batu Gading. It may have been three, or possibly four. Even the Kayans themselves, I imagine, were, aware that despite the two Brunei emissaries and their ruse of prolonging the pemali, nothing they could say or do would induce the Rajah to leave the district until his purpose—that of visiting the village—had been accomplished. Thus it happened that one morning the Rajah, tired of waiting, determined to send the pemali and all its measures to the devil. He ordered Mr. de Crespigny and my brother to land forthwith, make. their way up the pole to the house, and enter it with or without permission. Now it must be remembered that, in their heart of hearts, the Kayans knew the Rajah to be friendly to their tribe, and were only held back from welcom¬ ing him by the presence of the envoys from the Sultan of Brunei. I wish I could have seen the famous meeting! Mr. de Crespigny, urbane, digni¬ fied, very quiet in gesture and able to speak the Kayan language. My brother, young, lively, full of mischief and fun as he smiled and winked and showed signs of friendliness to the young Kayan warriors. My brother had a way with him which in all his journeys among the natives of Sarawak awakened friendly response in their hearts. It must have been apparent to the Kayans (themselves fully armed with spears and parangs) that they were in the presence of two brave men, for neither Mr. de Crespigny nor my brother had thought it necessary to protect themselves even with walking- sticks. "Now, you men of Batu Gading,” said Mr. de Crespigny, addressing the Chief and his followers and the two Pangerans, who hovered in the background. "The Rajah of Sarawak has come to pay you a friendly visit and, as you are aware, he is not accustomed to be kept waiting. Therefore, to-day, at the hour before the sun begins to set, his Ranee and himself intend to pay you a visit. He expects you—pemali or no—to be in readiness to receive him at that time." At the conclusion of this speech Mr. de Crespigny and my brother took their departure, escorted to the entrance of the house by the Chief and some of his men, descended the notched bamboo, and returned to the ship. They had not failed to note that their announcement of the Rajah's visit was received by the Sultan's Pan¬ gerans with evidences of the utmost discontent. As eight bells sounded from the deck of the Sri Sarawak that afternoon, the ship's boat, with crew reinforced by four of the Rajah's guard with loaded muskets, was awaiting us at the companion; my husband and I, accompanied by Mr. de Crespigny and my brother, got in and were rowed ashore. Lo and behold ! the landing-stage was filled with Kayan warriors, the Chief and his men ranged along the bank on either side of the climbing-pole. And how picturesque they did look, bristling with swords, spears, feathered caps, tigers' teeth; tattooed on legs and arms, be-bangled and hung with beads. I thought them beautiful and loved them all. As we stepped on shore the Rajah, with an impressive wave of the arm, ordered the boat, its entire crew, also the armed guard, back to the Sri Sarawak. "No guard whatever, Rajah?" inquired Mr. de Crespigny, as the boat receded from the shore. "A sign that we trust them absolutely,” said my hus¬ band, as the rifles were borne off on the stream. After they had saluted each other, the Chief led the way up the bamboo, followed by the Rajah. Then my turn came. Oh dear, another such a getting upstairs 1 Seeing my rueful expression, two beautiful young Kayan warriors came forward and offered me a hand. They were so graceful and charming I did my very best. They smiled sweetly at each effort I made to turn out my toes to the required position. They reminded me of Pan and other sylvan gods I had read about in fairy tales. When we reached the top each one deposited my hand back by my side with a courtly gesture. So many years gone by since then, and I can see them now! How I enjoyed it all, so strange, novel and fascinating was the scene I had been pushed into ! The Rajah, still escorted by the Chief and the most important members of the tribe, was the first to enter the long house {capable, said Mr. de Crespigny, of holding some, five hundred people). There was a platform in front, open to the air, and the verandah along which we were escorted was roofed-in the whole length of the house. As I followed my husband, Mr. de Crespigny and my brother on either side of me, I saw, all ranged against the wooden wall dividing the verandah from the dwelling-rooms beyond, Kayan warriors, spears in hand, standing straight and immovable. No one spoke. There was no sound but our footsteps as we were being led . . . where? At last we found ourselves in a large room the floor of which was covered with beautiful mats but having nn furniture of any kind except two large blocks of wood about three feet high, covered with some yellow cotton material. These were placed in readiness for the Rajah and myself to sit on, with our backs to the light. I was afterwards told by Mr. de Crespigny that the seat occupied by the Rajah was a huge slab cut out of the Tapang tree, those seats being heir-looms in Kayan families and descending, black with age, from fathers to sons for many generations. Mine was no doubt an afterthought of no great con¬ sequence. Mr. de Crespigny and my brother seated themselves on the floor. For a long time we all sat ou in silence, the only sounds to be heard being a cough or two now and then—the sort of coughs to be heard frequently at gatherings where constraint is felt and people are ill at ease. The behaviour of the two Pangcrans from Brunei was somewhat disconcerting. They kept prowling about among the Kayans, making signs to them and looking askance at us, until they finally wormed their way over to where we were and seated themselves on the floor behind us. Most uncomfortable ! I remember wondering if they intended jabbing us unprotected ones in the back with a kris! Admirable as usual on such occasions, my husband sat on, apparently as unconcerned as t hough he were seated on a chair in his study at home. He pulled his moustache, looked round at the assembly and then said, “I have come to see you all as a friend. I want to open up trade on tills river between my people and yours.” The Malay envoys hated it all, became restive and kept on chewing sirih, but the Chief and his followers were evidently pleased. The shy coughings ceased and gave place to contented wriggles of their bodies as they sat on the floor. After a little, the Chief rose to his feet and gave tongue. Being , ignorant to the Kayan language, the sounds he produced seemed to me like the croakings of a demented frog, but I was told that what he said was : "Rajah Sarawak, big man, friend of Kayans all over the country. Rajah wish make friends. We wish too!” "Baik!” (Good) replied my husband, and everyone, except the two emissaries of the Sultan, seemed to feel they were getting along very well. Smiles and greetings were exchanged, and a comfortable feeling came over us all. Then even poor me had a brain-wave! I turned to Mr. de Crespigny. "Ask the Chief where all the women are. I have come here with the Rajah, and as yet not one woman have I seen." "Not a had idea," said the Rajah. "Tell the Chief to send for the women.” A. young Kayan went off hurriedly, opened a door leading from the hall where we were sitting, went within and closed the door. Presently it was flung open, and a charming procession of females made their way into the hall, headed by the Chiefs wife, one of the most picturesque figures I have ever beheld. Small of stature, exquisitely formed, with a pale yellow complexion and large dark eyes of a somewhat Mongolian shape, the wonderful creature made her way slowly and with dignity to where we were sitting. Her black hair hung down over her shoulders and was bound round with a gleaming fillet of straw, her petticoat of white cotton was draped round her waist and reached her ankles, being slit up on one side to allow freedom of movement. At first I thought that her leg. which was revealed as she walked, was encased in dark blue velvet, but when she came nearer me I saw that what I bad taken to be velvet was a tattoo pattern covering her feet and legs. Behind her walked with equal dignity about thirty women, old and young. They appeared to me like Greek goddesses about to perform some sacred rite. The Chief’s wife came up to me, took possession of my hand which I placed in both of hers; we smiled at each other and it seemed as though mutual liking and trust were, at once established between us. I was wearing a thin sold chain on which hung a coral charm someone had once brought me from Naples. 1 pulled it off and slipped it over her head. More smiles, more messages of good-will flashed from each other’s eyes—those true indexes to innermost feel¬ ings. She sat on the floor at my feet, affectionately patting my knee with one hand while with the other she lovingly fondled the little charm I had hung round her neck. "A good idea of yours, Ranee,” said Mr. de Crespigny. The Rajah, too, seemed pleased, but of course he said nothing. I loved approbation, for I got so very little, and I felt important with a modest place in the picture. My brother was too much occupied on his own account to pay any attention to me. He was always at home in any company—civilized or no—and was then busily engaged with a young Kayan, a son of the Chief, inserting stilettos into each other’s arms and mixing their blood, thus proclaiming to all and sundry that they had become brothers and were cementing their new relationship in this manner. "Quite the right thing to do,” said Mr. de Crespigny, who, however, did not show the slightest eagerness to join in the scratchings by stilettos. When the Rajah gave the signal for us to depart , the women all escorted me to the entrance pole. The problem of descending was even worse than, that of ascending, but helped by my graceful Kayan cavaliers I accomplished it safely. The people all took leave of us with great affection, imploring us to come again, and we were rowed out to the Sri Sarawak, followed by the most vociferous farewells from the entire village gathered at the landing-stage. By that time the Brunei agents were no more to be seen ! “We must weigh anchor and move off at day¬ break,’’ said the Rajah, “or else the people will imagine that they must keep on sending us tokens of their goodwill and affection.” So, at the first streak of dawn, we steamed our way back down the Baram, all in the best of tempers. It was morning when we found ourselves at the mouth of the Baram. A capful of wind was blowing from the south-west and Mr. de Crespigny seemed rather perturbed about our chances of getting out to the Heartsease in such weather, hut the Rajah appeared quite calm. I sometimes think that my husband’s wonderful success as ruler, law-maker, civilizer and so forth may have been partly due to his never allowing “ifs” and “might be's” to interfere with his plans. On this particular occasion he was probably perfectly well aware, as a Naval man, that the vagaries of the strong wind might delay our boarding the yacht for a day, or even two or three days, but he never allowed anyone to assume that there was any anxiety in his mind on the subject. So we fussed and packed according to his orders. On arriving at the last reach of the river and coining into full view of the sea, the gale increased in force and great walls of white surf breaking on the shallow sandy shores threatened annihilation to any ship reckless enough to attempt to cross the bar. The Rajah, field-glass in hand, examined the position and ordered the anchor to be dropped. “Well, de Crespigny, we are stuck here for to-night,” he said, and relapsed into silence. Presently, from where I had gone to be ont of the wind, I heard the captain, the steward and, I think, the cook expressing their anxiety about the depleted state of the larder. They had provisioned the Sri Sarawak amply for the trip but had not reckoned on the extra days of waiting up at Batu Gading (owing to the pemali!), which had strained her resources, and we had had just enough to last us till that morning, by which time we had expected to be aboard the Heartsease. From what I could make out, there appeared to be nothing to fall back upon but dozens of tins of biscuits and dozens of pots of strawberry jam. On looking around us as we stood on deck, we had seen several wild cattle roaming about near the sandy shore of the river. The sight of these tawny creatures tilled two or three of our party on board with the happy idea of providing some solid meals while at the same time satisfying their sporting instincts. Rifles were pulled out, ammunition procured, and off the men set in a dinghy for the shore, watched with interest by Mr. de Crespigny and myself through our field¬ glasses, he expatiating on the satisfying meal which no doubt we should be enjoying before long. About half an hour after the hunters had disappeared round some green shrubs near the shore, we suddenly saw them emerge, running for their lives, pursued by an infuriated animal that looked like a great bull. The excitement was intense, and they just managed to reach the boat and push off in time, returning very much quicker than they had set out ! Poor dears, they looked very discomfited as they silently came on board. "Yes,” said the Rajah, “I thought that might happen; the cattle on these beaches are known to be savage and dangerous.” So there we were! For two whole days while we were waiting for the wind to die down, our meals consisted of biscuits and strawberry jam, eked out by smaller and smaller portions of white bread made from the last of the flour. The men consoled themselves with mild potations of beer and brandy-and-soda and I drank lea, of which we luckily still had plenty. Yet, through it all, good temper reigned supreme. Such silly jokes we indulged in ! I pinned up Mr. de Crespigny’s waistcoat with a safety-pin, which pin, he gallantly assured me, he would treasure for ever! We weighed each other on the weighing machine, pretending that we became lighter and lighter on the biscuits and jam diet. All very innocent, very silly, but such good fun ! When at last the storm died down and we reached the Heartsease to begin our journey back to Kuching, I, for one, felt sorry to think that our happy adventures had come to an end. Her Highness the Ranee’s Autobiography. We print below one of the many notices of Her Highness the Ranee’s autobiography which have recently appeared in the Press. It is taken from London Sunday Times:— SYLVIA OF SARAWAK : AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY. BY H.H. THE RANEE OF SARAWAK. (Hutchinson. 18s.) BY H. E. WORTHAM The Ranee of Sarawak begins by informing—or should I say warning?—us that this is not an ordinary autobiography. She keeps her word. It is not an ordinary autobiography. But one cannot accept her reason for being an autobiographer extra¬ ordinary, which is merely that she hates facts and fears dates. Facts indeed ! As if the whole auto¬ biographical tribe were not jesting Pilates in respect of this mere scaffolding of truth. And what need for dates has anyone who, like the Ranee, has mastered the art of being modem which, put less pretentiously, is conjugating the verb “to live” in the present tense? Besides, for all her chronological phobia, she sets her story in a framework of time. As an awkward girl she used to lake dancing lessons with Queen Victoria's grandchildren at Windsor Castle. The Queen herself, sho tells us, would watch the class, nodding encouragingly at their fancy steps, only to thump the floor furiously with her stick when little Prince Leopold of Battenburg failed to keep step in the final march past. The Ranee’s closing pages describe her “flight" from Sarawak, and the last photograph of her shows her being greeted at Croydon by her daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Hurry Roy. An epoch and a world lie between—a world uniting East and West, Sarawak and England. It is pictured in a pattern, vivid, highly coloured, sometimes garish. But whatever the tone it possesses the underlying unity of tem- persment and personality. It is this that places her autobiography apart from the normal examples of its kind. FATHER AND DAUGHTER For her present purpose the Ranee chose her father well. The daughter of the second Lord Esher, Sylvia Brett inherited her share of the talents which made that eminence grise of the Edwardian court one of the most charming and at the same time enigmatic figures of the period. Even his children felt something of this air of mystery which surrounded him. Our author, while submitting to the charm, experienced a measure of paternal severity which at times quenched filial affection in rebelliousness either overt or covert. If in consequence the Ranee's natural diffidence turned to an introspection which she described as morbid, it only banked down her native fire. As she grew up and fledged her wings she made her own friends among the “politicians, priests,, artists, and musicians"—(he list is hers, but it is by no means exhaustive—who were familiar visitors at her father’s house. Meanwhile she listened to their talk and learnt to observe—a faculty which serves her in this hook. How well the reader must judge. Whatever the distinction of her father, this young Edwardian had quite unusual qualities to lie able to command so many loyalties of friendship. After her marriage Mr. Bernard Shaw writes Ride a cock horse To Sarawak cross To see a young Ranee consumed with remorse. She'll have bells on her fingers And rings through her toes. And won’t be permitted to wear any clo'es, and then asks her to bring "the heathen potentate" to lunch. Sir James Barrie thought she would be "idolised at Sarawak." And another friend who says he will always love her dearly "in spite of your cruel criticisms," signs himself "J.F. (The King of Moods)." He was Sir John French—“an obstinate, foolhardy, lovable man whose memory will be for ever vivid and very near” is the Ranee's description of him whom of all her friends she knew best. "THIS RAJAH OF MINE" The hero of this autobiography—though 1 have heard it argued that to be modern an autobiography should have none—is the Rajah of Sarawak. Like her father, Sir Charles Vyner Brooke also appears as a man of mystery. But with it goes a boyish¬ ness, irrespressible, humorous, petulant, that is the cloak to the grave Englishman who labours for the good of his subjects. Here is her final summary :— Questions have been raised as to what kind of man this Rajah of mine is. I have tried to answer these questions through the pages of this intimate and detailed book—I have tried to con¬ vey what sort of a part my husband has played in this country, so remote and unexplored. I have tried to show that there are no poor, there are no unemployed, there is no cancerous growth that lies in the bosom of almost every country .... I have tried to explain the simple Brooke tradition. "Sarawak belongs to the Malays, sea and land Dayaks, Kayans, Kenyahs. Melanaus, Muruts, Kadayans. Bisa- yahs, and other tribes, and not to us. It is for them we labour, not ourselves.” No wife could pay her husband a finer tribute. Notes and Comments. "There is, however, a danger inherent in the very nature of Indirect Rule which needs con¬ sidering—the danger of making too much of a good thing, of making fetish instead of a stepping-stone (if I may mix my Metaphors) of existing native institutions. It can never be our aim, save perhaps with a few out-of-the-way peoples whose fate in unrestricted contact with Western ideas would be simply to wilt, degenerate and dis¬ appear ....................merely to preserve a human zoo, an Anthropological Garden. It cannot be our aim, for it would not work. Our mere presence in Africa makes it in the long run impossible; the fact that we are encouraging native production and native education, permitting the entry of white capital, missionaries, and science into Africa, makes it doubly impossible." These, remarks occur in Africa View, that admirable survey by Professor Julian Huxley of present-day social and political problems in Tropical Africa. The author is discussing the advantages and disadvantages of ‘Indirect Rule,' a system which, with certain safeguards and limitations, is in daily operation in the country; and it is at once apparent that his comments concern not only Africa, but also Sarawak. They apply with singular aptness to an attitude of mind which is all too prevalent to-day among those who come into dose contact with native races,—an attitude which will not admit that backward people have a right to their share of the benefits (such as they are) of the civilisation to which we have introduced them, and one which refuses to recognise the fact that primitive people are human beings who can no longer be treated as exhibits in a sort of zoo controlled by benevolent and understanding keepers. That the general public has until now been excluded to a great extent from these zoos, and that the exhibits have thereby been saved from the grosser manifestations of bad taste to which they might otherwise have been exposed does not alter the essential position, which is that they should not be in a zoo at all. The problem of the responsibility of civilized administrators towards the more primitive races under their charge is not one that can profitably be discussed in an hour or a day, least of all in a couple of columns of print, but we are at any rate on safe ground when we say that the trusteeship implied in that out-moded phrase 'The White Man's Burden' has in the past been all too often interpreted merely as a licence to exploit backward peoples without any thought of their rights and of their eventual place in the structure of humanity. Now, however, the wheel has turned full circle; it was started on its ponderous revolution by the realisation of just what was meant by certain methods of ‘civilising’ native tribes—‘Pax Belgica' in the Congo, for instance,—and the sudden swing of public opinion gave it such an impetus that there is now a real danger that it will turn too far. At the moment, unspoiled communities are at a premium ; wherever these are found the tendency is to put them into a sort of moral game reserve, to build a fence round them which will protect them, so to speak, from the vulgar attentions of the Bank Holiday crowd. This procedure, it is true, prevents them from being teased : but it also prevents them from escaping from the reserve should they wish to do so. and ensures for them a disastrous period of bewilderment and frustration when (as inevitably happens) the fence has to be taken down. There is, unfortunately, a type of European administrator who allows his sympathy for back¬ ward tribes and his enthusiasm for their institutions to run away with him, and to blind him to the real interests of the people he serves. It is the old story of choking the cat with cream; in the long run his unthinking solicitude and lack of foresight work just as much mischief as did the cruder methods of the earlier filibusters, and the people concerned have as little reason to be grate¬ ful to him as they had towards the advance guard of the old Imperialism. For he does not look upon them as adult human beings at all, but as children whom it is his duty to keep in a state of perpetual childhood; and although for the time ing all may appear well on the surface, this policy ensures all kinds of trouble in the years ahead, and so does the natives a real disservice. This is what Professor Huxley has to say on this subject:— "Let me take a parallel from family life. There are plenty of parents who treat their children as pets. .They find them delightful so long as they remain childish playthings which have the unique advantage of being alive and able to talk. But they have forgotten that the little darlings are real human beings like their elders and betters; and when the children grow up, show signs of thinking for themselves, and demand to be dealt with on the adult plane—why. then there is trouble. The trouble comes from two sides at once. For one thing, the parents want to keep their pets as long as possible, and unconsciously resent any move in the direction of indepen¬ dence ; and for another, the boys and girls are, of course, very young and inexperienced, they do make mistakes, they are crude and callow and unbalanced, and irritate both by their awkward diffidence and their unteachable obstinacy. "But the children will grow up—that is how they are made, that is why they were brought into the world, and it is doubtless very irrational of parents to feel aggrieved at it. But aggrieved they often feel, and will do so unless they discount the change beforehand with the aid of a little reason and a little imagination. "It is much the same with the contact between a high civilisation and the more pri¬ mitive peoples under its charge. As long as natives can be treated as children, aggravating and yet charming creatures who must just be told what to do and what not to do, and attempts at argument can be cut short by some authoritative gesture, they will inevitably be popular with their white guardians. But when they begin to develop and tn demand a share in the. same world of thought and life in which we white people live, matters are different. The black children are growing up. They are no longer children. But the adoles¬ cence of a people is more prolonged and more difficult than the adolescence of an individual; its half-bakedncss and crudity will be more pronounced. And an adolescent people is bound often to irritate those who have stood in loco parentis to it. and set their teeth on edge. "It is indeed remarkable to see how wide¬ spread (though by no means universal) and deep-rooted (though often unconscious) is the feeling of white men against the Europeanized, educated, or even progressive native. And the feeling is often strongest in those who have a whole-hearted liking for the unsophisticated native. It is remarkable, because, after all, the white man's very existence in the country involves change and introduces new standards; the assumption underlying government of black by white is that white ideas and methods are superior to black; and the aim of the control and the education we thrust upon them is to give them Western ideas, skill, and individual self-reliance, and, in the case of mission education, Western religious beliefs and ideals as well. Yet if they really begin to put these ideas into practice and try to live up to the new standards, the first reaction of Europe, in the persons of the local Europeans, is hostile. "Europe cannot have it both ways. If wo rule by virtue of some white superiority, we must expect the natives to take our ideas and methods as worthy of imitation; if we educate them to think for themselves about their agriculture and their trades and their local administration, we must remember that the different parts and activities of mind are by no means thought-tight, and must expect them to use their brains on other and more general topics; when you have encouraged the child to grow up, you must not expect him to remain a child." Every word in the last two paragraphs should be underlined with the heaviest red pencil procurable, for red is the traditional colour of danger signals, and even the most superficial survey of present-day conditions in Sarawak will convince all who have eyes to see that those signals, or something very like them, are flying in Sarawak at this moment, and that if we choose to ignore them, we shall do so at the risk of laying up serious trouble for ourselves in the years ahead. The extract we have quoted gives the opinion of an expert who combines an admirably-balanced judgment with one of the most penetrating intellects of our times. In view of this, it is probable that even the most obstinate supporters of the ‘human zoo’ policy will concede I that there is something in what he says; and anyone who cares to devote a little thought to the question will realise that there is a very great deal in it indeed. At the present moment, Sarawak stands at the cross roads. For better or worse, conditions have changed and are rapidly changing, and the 'zoo' idea is now an anachronism which can no longer he tolerated if the natives are to get the square deal to which they are entitled. Sarawak has ceased to be an oasis of peace in an age of hustling materialism; no longer can it be regarded as a kind of sanctuary where natives can live a life of idyllic simplicity untroubled by echoes from the outside world. To take only one instance, if it is a commonplace to say that the aeroplane has abolished distance, it is none the less true. Although the development of air communications in the Far Fast is still in its infancy, it is making great strides even now, and is opening up prospects that in their different way are just as dazzling as those which followed the first voyages of discovery in the Orient. By abolishing distance, the aeroplane has cut sharp across the various strata of contemporary civili¬ sation and has thereby accelerated immeasurably the process of adjustment that is always going on between one level of culture and another. The results of this process no one as yet can foresee; we can only say with safety that in a very short time, as these things go, there will no longer be any such thing as genuine isolation. It is our duty to face this fact, and to endeavour to fit the natives for the struggle that lies before them,—the struggle to adapt themselves to the new world which is being opened up to them. It may be a long time before the impact of what we call ‘civilization’ becomes a serious problem, but that is no reason why we should not start now to prepare for the future. If one discusses Professor Huxley’s views in the light of their application to Sarawak, it may be argued that they do not apply to all. since we are not ‘encouraging the child to grow up'. In reply we can put the old. unanswerable question : if not. why not? What are we here for? What account of our stewardship will our successors be able to render in fifty, a hundred years' time? If our main object is not to promote the welfare of the people and improve their condition generally, what excuse is there for our continued presence in their country? If we admit this, as surely we must, we must also admit that what we are trying to do means ‘progress', and that whether we like it or not. in the long run 'progress' inevitably means ‘civilisation’. The solution of the problem—that of the gradual adaptation of primitive natives to modern civili- sation—lies in the one word ‘education.’ Some years ago this Gazette expressed high hopes of the educational policy that was then being started with the construction of Maderasah Melayu, Kuching’s Malay College; unfortunately the depression inter¬ vened. and those hopes were not fulfilled. It is a regrettable, if perhaps an inevitable, fact that during the past few’ years Sarawak's educational policy has been one of drift. This, though admit¬ tedly due in a large measure to financial difficulties, is simply not good enough, for it is growing more and more apparent that education—the right sort of education, that is.—is not a luxury but a vital necessity. No one in his senses wishes to produce a class of 'failed B.A’s’, and Sarawak’s educational policy must be shaped to avoid the mistakes that have been made in India and other Eastern countries. But if we are to fulfil our duty to the people of the State we must put our educational house in order, and without further delay. It is gratifying to note that there are indications that the dangers of the ‘drift’ policy are fully realised, and that this most important question is now to receive the attention which it deserves. The Borneo Company, Limited. 143RD ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING. The One Hundred and Forty-third Ordinary General Meeting of the Company was held on the 11th October, 1936, at the Registered Offices of the Company, 143-149, Fenchurch Street, London. E.C. 3. Sir Adam B. Ritchie (Chairman of the Company) presided. The notice convening the meeting and the Auditors’ Report having been read by the Secretary, the Minutes of the previous Annual General Meeting, and also the Directors’ Report and Accounts were taken as read. The Chairman then apologised for the absence through illness of Mr. H. A. Trotter, one of the Directors, and proceeded :— The past year has proved one of varying fortunes, in which our hopes in some directions have been more than realised, and in others have ended in dis¬ appointment. Reviewing our operations generally, there was during the past financial year a distinct improvement, in spite of the continuance of the disadvantages resulting from exchange difficulties, import duties, quotas, prohibitions, and all the other restrictions which are so strangling to the interchange of trade between different countries. The recent International Agreement on exchange rates for the principal currencies in the world will be of immediate benefit to our Haboko Tea Company in Sumatra, and if. as I hope, this Gentlemen’s Agreement proves to bo a prelude to the pruning down of these restrictions which I have just referred to. the improvement which will result in International trade must be reflected in our business. It is early yet, however, to be able to gauge the extent of this improvement, which can only be gradual. From the printed copy of the Profit and Loes Account before you, it will be seen that the profit for the year was .4*9.222. 18s. 4d.—an increase of £4,611. 17s. 10d. over the previous year. The improvement in our business which 1 have referred to is not confined to this small increase in profits as these have been arrived at after making an exceptional charge for depreciation of our tea and rubber estates of £25,768. 13s. 10d., as against .£7,594. 3s. 8d. in the previous year. I will explain the reasons for this increase shortly. Again, the amount taken from the special Teak Reserve to meet losses on teak trading is £16,469. 10s. less than it was in the previous year. The improvement in our business, therefore, is more marked than would appear from the figures of profits which are shown. To pass now to the particular departments of our business. In teak, which, as you are aware, has dominated our fortunes in the recent past, there was during last year a very appreciable improve¬ ment. both in offtake and in prices, which, however, was more noticeable in those markets giving preference to timber of British origin. Tn the markets where we now have to look for the bulk of our offtake, prices have not risen correspondingly. I refer particularly to China, where business continues to be depressed in consequence of political uncertainties and exchange difficulties, and which, so far as teak is concerned, has become little more than a dumping ground for inferior qualities. It is interesting to compare some figures of the exports of teak from Siam in 1931 and last. year. The volume of exports to India and to the United Kingdom, which are now largely closed to us through Imperial Preference, fell by 44.4 per cent. and 62.12 per cent., and prices by 14.8 per cent, and 32 per cent, respectively. Similarly exports to China fell by 50.5 per cent, and prices by 20 per cent. Such figures clearly indicate the difficulties which the teak industry in Siam has had to face during the past few years. In order to offset the unsatisfactory state of these markets, we are endeavouring to extend our connections in other territories which still remain open to us. and we are meeting with some success, although competition is very keen. When I addressed yon last, year, I expressed the hope that, with the help of certain economies in our costs of extraction of teak from the forests, we should be able to avoid another loss this year. Our extraction costs were actually reduced by about 10 per cent., but this proved insufficient to counterbalance the low prices persisting in several of our markets, and accordingly our operations resulted in the loss of £12,929. 3s. 4d., which compares with the loss of £29,398. 13s. 4d. in our accounts for the previous year. During the last few months we have installed new and more up-to-date machinery for converting the timber in our saw mill in Bangkok with a view to increasing our output of timber and reducing costs. We shall, therefore, during the latter part of the current year secure the benefit of a further reduction in costs, but I cannot say yet whether or not the returns we may obtain for our timber will result in a profit. All I can say with certainty is that demand and prices are being maintained, and that we are now down to rock- bottom in the matter of costs. Unfortunately 1 can give you no further inform- ' ation as to what is going to happen after the expiry of our existing forest leases in four years' time, as we are still waiting to learn what the policy of the Siamese Government is to be. The delay in this intimation by the authorities is causing ourselves and other producers no little inconvenience at present. Our tea gardens in Sumatra, operating under the name of the Haboko Tea Company, Limited, exported the full quantity allowed under the Res¬ triction Scheme, although climatic conditions were less favourable than during the previous year. Cost of production remained steady, but selling prices were lower than during 1934-1935. Since the end of our financial year there has been a considerable improvement in prices which I have hope may be maintained, and now that we have a more favourable exchange rate for the guilder anticipate that, excluding the present heavy charges for depreciation of buildings and plant, we shall secure a profit from our tea in the current year. The area of the estale under rubber is developing satisfactorily, and the tapping tests which were continued during the year proved encouraging. The erection of a factory capable of handling the production of rubber within the limits prescribed by the Restriction Scheme was completed during the year, and manufacture commenced early in May last. The danger of lalang grass spreading over the estate has been successfully overcome, and the reports of our local Managers and Visiting Agents show the cultivation of the Estate to be in capable hands. Whilst no sales of rubber were made last year, we were, able to dispose of our quota rights under the Restriction Scheme at substantial prices. The revenue which we received from this source has been utilised to write down the values of the original buildings, for which no depreciation has been provided in the past. This is the explanation of the exceptional figure for depreciation which is noted in the Profit and Loss Account. 1 look forward to the time when the rubber estate will prove to be one of the most important sources of income for our Company. Turning now to the merchandise side of our business, this continues to expand, especially in Malaya and Sarawak, in both of which countries we made profits. In Siam where, as I told you last year after my visit to that country, there are not the same opportunities for expansion, we are conducting a moderate business out of which the revenue is proportionately small. Our shipping and produce businesses in Siam both resulted in a loss last year. In consequence of competition in freights by tramp steamers, and of the very large reduction in the quantities of timber now being shipped from Siam to India, we have decided to close down our business as charterers between Siam and India, which we have successfully carried on for a period of 40 to 50 years. Our produce business, which is mainly in rice, suffered losses which were common to all shippers last year in consequence of intense competition in a limited market. Rice is a commo¬ dity which is becoming more and more speculative to handle, but in which there are still opportunities for making good profits, provided that the restrictions in foreign countries against Siamese rice are not increased. Our subsidiary companies in Malaya, Alexandra Brickworks. Limited, and Borneo Motors, Limited, both experienced better years, especially the latter, which was able to pay a dividend of 12} per cent. hope that it may be possible for this Company to continue to pay substantial dividends to us, but I doubt whether its earnings can be maintained on so high a scale as last year. The Alexandra Brickworks made a small profit, but not sufficient to enable resumption of the payment of dividends on its Preference capital, which are now four years in arrears. During the current year there has been a considerable increase both in the offtake and in the prices of the Company’s products and in time I have little doubt that we shall again earn some revenue from this investment. Turning to the balance sheet for a minute, there are only one or two comments which I have to make. There is a small increase in the amount of the Reserve Account, resulting from the recovery of a sum set aside some years ago to meet a contingent loss. The withdrawals from the Reserve Account represent the amounts taken for bad and doubtful debt provision and for depreciation of stocks of merchandise. Amounts due by the Company, including bank overdrafts, show a considerable increase, reflecting the expansion in our merchandise and produce businesses, and corres¬ ponding to increases in amounts due to the Company and stock of produce on the assets side. There are no other points I need draw your attention to, hut. if any shareholder would like additional information about any of the items. I shall be pleased to give it at the close of my remarks. On behalf of my Board, I must again express to you our regret that it has been impossible to recommend any dividend for the Preference Share¬ holders. The Preference dividend is now in arrears for four years, and under the Reconstruction Scheme, which, as mentioned in our Report, will shortly be placed before you, provision will be made for dealing with those arrears. I had hoped to be able to present this scheme to you now, so that it could be considered in conjuction with the Accounts which are before you, but unfortunately it could not be completed in time to permit of all the prelimi- nary procedure which is necessary in the formulation of such a scheme. It must be apparent to everyone that the earning power of those assets on which we were previously accustomed to rely for so large a proportion of our revenue has been seriously reduced owing to the changed conditions for the particular businesses in which we are interested. The outlook is certainly brighter than it has been for some time, but even so, your Board can see no probability of the Company, constituted as it is at present, earning sufficient revenue to pay the Preference dividends and at the same time provide something in the shape of dividends for the Ordinary Shareholders. We consider, therefore, that the time has come when we should put forward a scheme of such a nature that the Company may got rid of its out- standing arrears of Preference dividend and be placed in a position to resume payment of dividends ! on the reduced amount of its capital. It. is difficult to calculate for the future in a business comprising so many varied interests, such as ours. I must take some risk, however, and I do not think that I am taking an undue risk in estimating that, provided the scheme is adopted, the future earnings of the Company will he sufficient to permit of the payment of moderate dividends. Lastly, it remains for me to commend to you j the loyal work of your Managers and Staff, both here in London and in the East, who one and all are striving to improve the fortunes of your Company. I may say that during the past year your Board had much satisfaction in being able to remove the special cut in all staff salaries, which had remained in force for a period of four years and which has now been abolished, with the exception of the remuneration of the members of your Board. It is always a pleasure to me to have this opportunity of expressing to you the Appreciation of your Board of the work which your staff is doing, and if anyone present would care to add a few words on behalf of the Shareholders I shall have much pleasure in passing on his remarks. After moving the adoption of the Report and Accounts, which was seconded by Mr. A. A. Jamieson, the Chairman invited questions from Members present. Most of them related to the proposed Reconstruction Scheme, but the Chairman pointed out that it was impossible to give any details of the scheme at this meeting, and said that ample opportunity would be given for discussion of the scheme by all Shareholders after it had been placed before them. The Report and Accounts, as submitted, were unanimously adopted, and the retiring Directors, Messrs. A. Whitworth and H. A. Trotter, were re-elected. Messrs. Turquand, Youngs & Co., the Auditors of the Company, were re-appointed for the current year. Mr. R. S. Robertson then said : Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, for several years past we have had to possess our souls in patience, hut if I have interpreled the remarks of the Chairman correctly, our patience is at last to be rewarded, as there are better prospects for the future. We do not, of course, know yet what will be the nature of the proposals which will shortly be presented to us, but for the circumstances which have made the reconstruction necessary our staff are in no way responsible, and in the meantime I are sure you will all join with me in thanking our Managers and staff at horne and abroad for having successfully brought our Company through the difficulties of the past few years. In seconding, Mr. W. J. Webster said that to their thanks he wished to add their congratulations to the Managers and staff. After thanking Messrs. Robertson and Webster for their kind remarks, which he said would be very gratifying to the staff, the Chairman then declared the meeting closed. Mr. Salter then proposed a hearty vote of thanks to the Chairman and expressed the confidence of the Shareholders in the Board. The proceedings then terminated. AGRICULTURE. INTERESTING EXPERIMENT WITH SARAWAK PINEAPPLES. The following is an extract, from a report by Mr. G. St. F. Dare, Senior Agricultural Officer, Sarawak :— “A trial shipment of thirty Sarawak pines was made to the Government Canning Officer, at Kuala Lumpur. The pines were picked and plucked and were despatched to Kuala Lumpur on August 15th. The Canning Officer reported that they arrived in excellent condition, and were canned on August 19th and 20th; his report appears below, and from his remarks it would appear that canning Sarawak pines is a commercial proposition, although in mv opinion more care in plucking and handling would be necessary than in the case of the smaller variety now canned in Johore. Further trials will be carried out by this Department.” Report on canning trials carried out by the Department of Agriculture, S.S and F.M.S. Kuala Lumpur, on samples of Sarawak pineapples sent over by the Senior Agricultural Officer Sarawak, on August 17th, 1936. Be suits.—Thirty Sarawak pineapples were picked on August 14th, 1936, in Kuching, and sent to the Department of Agriculture, Kuala Lumpur, where they were canned on August 19th and 20th. The pines were carefully packed complete with crown suckers and arrived in excellent condition. The weights of the individual fruits with crown suckers removed varried from 6.7. to 10.2 lbs., the average weight of a single fruit being 8.25 lbs. From a total weight of fresh fruit, less crown suckers, of 248 lbs. 94 cans of cubes, segments and juice were packed, the cans used being the 1 1/2 lb. tall size and consisted of the following -  This represents a total recovery of cut fruit and juice of 41 per cent, of the fresh fruit, which is about 10 per cent, greater than the average recovery obtained from Singapore canning pines, owing to the greater size of the Sarawak pines. Tt must be remembered that this figure was taken over thirty “selected” pine and may not be a true representative of the recoverable fruit. The fruit was prepared for canning in the way usually employed in Malaya, that is, it was peeled and cut by hand, washed and filled into the cans. Owing to the size of the cores of the pines it was impossible to cut the fruit into slices, the cores being two inches and more in diameter, also the fruits were so large that in order to cut slices to fill the standard sizes of cans, the waste would have been prohibitive, so in order to get over this difficulty some of the pines were cut into segments and the rest into cubes. In this way a minimum j of waste was obtained. The cut fruits were divided up into batches of ten cans each and each hatch was given a different treatment, in order to find out which process was the most suitable, for this variety of pineapple. The actual processes are described on the table attached to each can, each batch being given a serial number from 10 to 18. The following are the results of examination after the cans had been incubated for three weeks :— No. 10.—Vacuum 10 -12 inches of mer¬ cury. Hydrometer reading of syrup 16c BRIX (i.e., 16% by weight of sugar) : very pale yellow colour and white patches : syrup clear and flavour quite good. Not cooked enough. This pack would be equivalent to the Malaya “Good Average Quality” grade. (There are three grades in Malaya, namely “Golden." “Good Average Quality” and “Second.”) No. 11.—Vacuum 14—16" Hg. 16° Brix syrup. Bale yellow colour with few white patches: clear syrup. Flavour good. A little more cooking needed. No. 12.—Vacuum 15" Gh. Syrup 16° Brix. Straw yellow colour, no white, patches, fair flavour. Would pass as ‘G.A.Q.’ No. 13.—Vacuum 10" Hg. Syrup 18° Brix. Fair golden colour a little white; good appearance and flavour. This pack would definitely be classed as “Golden” grade. No. 11 —Vacuum 6.5" Hg. Appearance good but rather stale cooked flavour. Not good. The wrong process was used. No. 75.—Vacuum 7* Hg. Cooked stale flavour and too sweet. Pale colour. (Total acidity of juice, estimated at citric acid = .802%. Malayan pines have acidity .5-.6%. With both the juices the wrong process was used; since canning these I have worked out a process which retains the natural flavours better and I propose to try again with some locally procured Sarawak pines.) No. 16.—Vacuum 16" Hg. Syrup 22° Brix. Very good appearance no white; good flavour, good golden colour. This seems to be a very suitable process for this variety. This pack would beat most Malayan packs for quality. No. 17,—Vacuum 13" Hg. Syrup 25° Brix. Washed out appearance, dull flavour : obviously an unsuitable process. No. 18.—Vacuum 15" Hg. Syrup 25° Brix. Good colour; some white. Good flavour, would pass as "Golden.” CONCLUSIONS. From these results it is quite apparent that Sarawak pineapples can be canned successfully, but that they require very much more care in handling and processing than the Malayan pines. Batches No. 13 and 16 both indicate that a steam exhaust of from 6—10 minutes coupled with about 12 minutes cooking at 20 lbs. per square inch steam pressure (259oF) is a suitable process and that canned pineapple can be produced of a standard equal to the best quality by this method. As the flesh of Sarawak pineapples is naturally white, greater care would have to be taken to see that the fruit was just ripe when it was picked : unripe Sarawak pines will never attain the golden yellow colour which is considered desirable in canned pine¬ apple. The flesh of a ripe Sarawak pineapple although comparatively white when fresh, will turn a good golden colour when canned, using a suit¬ able process; unripe pine remains perfectly white. The percentage recovery of cut fruit appears to be appreciably higher than for the Malayan pines on account of the large size of the Sarawak pines; for the same reason the cutting expenses would he considerably reduced. A cutter would probably be able to cut 50 per cent, more cut fruit per hour than with the smaller pines. It is impossible to cut slices from pines of this size but the yield in cubes and segments is high. Segments have been packed by Hawaiian canneries as a fancy pack, but there seems no reason why this should not become one of the popular packs. The Sarawak pine when canned has a very plea¬ sant flavour closely resembling the flavour of the Smooth Cayenne variety which is canned in Hawaii. The flavour is altogether stronger than the Malayan pines, and I think much more palatable. The Sarawak pines seem to be admirably suit¬ able for the preparation of juice; the yield of juice from the waste is very high and owing to the high acidity, about 50 per cent, higher than Malayan pineapple juice, the flavour is excellent, it now remains to find a process to retain this good flavour as it is in its fresh condition. The necessary can¬ ning plant for handling 60 cans per minute, or working a 16 hour day during the rush season to turn out 1,200 cases per day of 48 cans each would cost approximately $12,000 exclusive of the build¬ ing : some of this machinery could be obtained locally at much less cost, but the main items such as the exhauster, cooker and cooler would have to be bought from England. I feel quite sure that, if someone were to start up a factory on the right lines for canning Sarawak pines and grew his own pines too, it would be successful; with care a pack superior to the Malayan certainly in flavour and perhaps quality could be produced for which there would be a ready market if the price could be kept on the level of the Malayan canned pines. Dayak Myths and Legends. It is a long time now since I first began to realize how rich in myth and legend the Dayak language is. These myths are of an interest which a casual acquaintance with the people would not lead one to suspect, and of course, to the sceptical European may even bo found amusing. From that time, I have felt an increasing regret that no  one has   made a   proper   study   of   this   lore. It may be that apart from the time necessary to devote to it, the position of the Government Officer as the ruler, expounder of the law, and distributer of chastisement is not one to give that personal intimacy with the people, and that sympathy with their domestic joys and sorrows, hopes and mis- givings, which are so essential in the mythological student in order to draw from the people those folk stories of which they are half proud and half , ashamed, and about which they are at the same time both derisive and fearful. While I hesitate to venture upon so broad a field of study with my comparatively short experience, I none the less feel that as long as nothing is put on record, none is likely to appear, and on that ground alone I venture to offer the following in the hope that those many others who have heard, and probably better understood, other myths and legends, will also contribute. In doing so they may rest assured t hat they are helping to a better under¬ standing of a unique and progressive people and at the same time working in the cause of science. Legend I.—The Spirit of the Mountains. Manv many generations ago, when the great river still flowed through the Dutch lakes down the Undup and Batang Lupar to join the great river of China, the whole of Nimong mountain belonged to a powerful person named Batang Anyut. He was more than a mortal, being on his mothers' side descended from the Spirits. He was possessed of a famous sword named Bang, and the fame of his exploits with this sword were spoken of in the Courts of the Emperors of China, and such was his prowess that three long houses, each bigger than all the houses in .Stumbin put together cud to end, would hardly hold the heads he had taken in fair fight (for never once was he known to strike his man without giving his war whoop at the same time, and one stroke was always enough). His temper was fiery, and shorter than that of a wounded boar at bay, and this, combined with his sword Ilang and his skill in ambush, explains his wealth in heads. With him, on the hill, lived his sister Uteh, a specialist in sewing, with her two sons. There were no others in the whole country side. When the two sons were of sufficient age. their uncle Anyut decided to share out the hill Nimong, a piece for him and a piece each for the two sons, who in return would have to support their mother, as he was now getting too old to supply her with the needles she desired. You may, of course, be sure that he retained a large part of the hill for himself. All went well for a short time, but then one of the sons noticed that his padi was being eaten each night. The matter became so serious that he decided at last to sit up all night and catch the intruder. After many hesitations, he chose a night, unfor¬ tunately for him a moonless one, and went up the hill to keep his vigil. Very soon, before he had had time to get properly asleep, he heard rustlings, loud ones as of a great beast in the distance, but rapidly approaching. His loneliness, the darkness, and the approach of the unknown foe, rooted him to the ground, powerless to flee. Suddenly, on a crescendo of fury of crashing branches and splitting trunks, there reared up before him a fearsome grasi (evil spirit), tall as the highest trees, broad as a river, distorted and humpbacked, his eyes as big as two moons, and glittering with a pale green light. At last the limbs of the terrified mortal found their power to function, and with a scream of horror he fled down the hillside with the ghastly laughter of the spirit piercing his eardrums, and the fumes of its breath scorching the hair on the back of his head. (This is why the Nimong people now wear their hair cut short.) In the end he rushed into bis house and straight into his room, where he immediately fainted, and did not move for three days. When he awoke, it was to an ague of trembling so acute that the beating of his hee's on the ground created an earth¬ quake. It was this earthquake that Bukit Sadok first appeared and divided the great river into the valleys that have now dwindled to the Batang Lupar and the Rejang. After many months his full faculties returned to him, and he began to wonder how he was to continue his farming with such a monster abroad on his land. So he decided to go to China, where in those days lived many men learned in the arts of dealing with spirits. He went with some mis¬ giving for he doubted if any man could effectively deal with so terrible a spirit. However, after many wanderings he came upon an old man who said that he himself had had contact with even such a spirit and knew of a method of moving him along, and gave him a powerful charm which he called ubat chit to spread all over his farm. Unfortunately, when he said “moving him along" he was speaking literally, for all that his charm did was to move the evil spirit along on to his brother's farm. The brother, being aware of the first son’s experience, decided immediately to visit the same learned man and see if he could get rid of his unwelcome visitor. So taking a pile of heads from his uncle's store (the only currency they had, in those days) he also went off to China and procured some of the famous charm. Once again the awful spirit moved on, but this time he had nowhere to go but to the uncle's land. The uncle not being aware of what had been going on in his sister's and nephew’s house was at a loss to account for the damage to his padi. However, after some deliberation he came to the following conclusion. His nephews, having been given a share of his land were now getting rapacious, and wanted the whole lot. He decided therefore to end the trouble in his characteristic fashion, by taking his sword Hang to them. Crimson with rage, he tore along the path for his revenge, but luckily met bis sister, who seeing him on evil bent so close to home, reproved him for making noises after hours, and made him calm down a bit. She, being of the same descent as Uncle himself, also knew a thing or two, and had some power over him. When he had so far recovered himself as to be fool enough to argue with a woman, he explained about the losses in his farm, giving full details, with a meaty appendix on overhead coats. Then of course his sister was able to explain the business of the wicked spirit, and how her sons had pot rid of it. This made Uncle take another dive or friend Hang, and redouble his threats against the hapless nephews. However, Uteh had a wrinkle or two up her sleeve, and breathing half a dozen spells, sho fetched Uncle a smack on the back of the head with a log of wood which happened to be lying about, and laid him out. When he came to she said now would he listen to reason or would he like another chip off the same block. (Alack that hands that had threaded so many a fine needle should be forced to such bloodsomc methods at the crossroads !) However, she must have wielded a pretty log of wood, for Uncle, though not in the mood for reason¬ ing at all, did not want any more chips off that or any other block. He would rather keep what he still had. In the end then, Uncle was packed off to China to see if he could raise a better brand of charmer than that which they had had so far. He went breathing many unquotable vengeances against nephews who spent their time between flips to China in dumping illicit spirits on other people’s land and pinching people's heads when they weren’t ! looking. Still, taken all round, it was lucky that he went, for the advice which he got was good, so good that it is used by all Dayaks to the present day. And the good advice was this,—they must first make sure that the evil spirit was on the mountain (how, was not mentioned,) then fell a belt of jungle all round the mountain, for it was felt that the spirit was sure to be a jungle dweller and would not cross the cleared land. Having connected the belt all round the hill, all they had to do was to continue the felling upwards and drive the evil one up to the top. They must never fell the jungle right on the top, or he would have nowhere to retreat, and the whole tribe of spirits would visit their wrath on them, which would be no fun nt all. They must also be careful not to make the remain¬ ing topnotch of jungle too small, or maybe the spirit would be annoyed and occasionally come down and visit his annoyance on them. This was done, and the scheme was a success. That is why you will always sec that the Dayaks never fell all the jungle on a hill on which there is a spirit, and always leave his jungle sanctuary right on the top. Furthermore, you will find that the only people who see this particular kind of evil spirit are those who have felled too near the top, and who have therefore forced the spirit into quarters that are too cramped for him. On Nimong itself, the origin of the scheme and the site of the first experiment, the spirit settled down and made himself a lake on top for his drinking water, and the sign by which we know that the lake was the work of the spirit is that though it is surrounded by trees, no leaf has yet fallen upon it or into it. It is of interest that this lake was still in existence five years ago, to my own personal knowledge. Unfortunately, about that time ago, some extra felling was done near the top of the hill and must have greatly displeased the spirit, for one day the lake suddenly sank into the ground and has never since been seen. Also, that very day one of the men who did the felling slipped on the mountain and fell to his death, and of the people who were concerned in that felling, not a single one is left to-day to tell of it. —B. (to-be continued). Race-Course Development Fund. GENERAL MEETING. Minutes of a General Meeting of the Race Course Development Fund held at the Court House, Kuching, on Sunday, November 22nd, at 9.30 a.m. The Chairman of the Collection Committee opened the proceedings by saying that the receipts to date amounted to a little over $11,000 which was not sufficient to justify a start being made on developing the area. Dr. Wong Cheong Way said that a large number of the public did not understand the objects of the Fund, and asked what would be Government’s attitude if the Fund could be increased to $20,000 by further subscriptions, and suggested a Gymkhana Meeting at the race-course. He suggested that if such a Meeting were held for one or two days at Chinese New Year and all proceeds, including proceeds of sweepstakes, were to go to the Fund, some $5,000 or $6,000 could be raised. Mr. Calvert agreed that the name was unfortunate and probably caused misunderstandings regarding the objects of the Fund, and suggested a change of name. Mr. Le Gros Clark suggested changing the name of the Fund to "Centenary Fund." Mr. Boyd suggested "Jubilee Fund." The Chairman said that he agreed with a change of name but this should be decided after a decision had been arrived at with regard to the future of the Fund. Mr. Le Gros Clark asked bow the figure of $50,000. which was the sum originally asked for,' was arrived at. The Chairman said that this figure was quite arbitrary. Mr. Le Gros Clark suggested that the cost of the scheme should be worked out before proceeding further with the scheme. The Chairman said that there was no one to do this, besides which there never was any intention of doing all development at once. Mr. Le Gros-Clark asked whether the original figure of $50,000 made allowance for upkeep, and the Chairman replied that, it was intended that a certain amount of the money collected should be put aside, and the interest used for purposes of upkeep. Mr. Le Gros Clark then put a motion to the Meeting that the scheme be abandoned and contri¬ butions refunded: this was put to the Meeting and rejected unanimously.  - . Dr. Wong s suggestion of a Gymkhana Meeting was put forward and carried unanimously, and it was agreed that the Turf Club he asked whether they would support a Gymkhana Meeting in February. Mr. Pegler suggested that development be started now. The Chairman pointed out that the money available was insufficient and in any case in view of the possibility of getting Chan Kui Seng's land development should be deferred as the hill on Chan Kui Seng’s land would reduce any costs of filling very appreciably. The Datu Bandar said that in any case develop¬ ment should wait until the fine weather. Mr. Calvert's suggestion that the name of the Fund be changed was then put to the Meeting and passed unanimously. Abang Daim seconded Mr. Boyd's proposal to change the name to "Jubilee Fund”—No votes. Mr. Calvert suggested "Jubilee Recreation Ground." Datu Bandar seconded. This was passed unanimously. Dr. Wong Cheong Way suggested that as the objects included the making of football fields which could be used by schools in Kuching, the boys of all schools be asked to contribute even very small sums so that they would feel now and in later years that they had done something towards the ground and therefore had a personal interest in its success. The Chairman pointed out that while he agreed with the suggestion in principle, he considered that such a course would not be justified unless there was some guarantee that at least one football field would be constructed. Mr. Ong Kwan Hin seconded Dr. Wong Cheong Way’s suggestion ; this was defeated as no one voted. Mr. Shimizu suggested that funds might be raised by public lottery ; this was seconded by Mr. Pollard and passed by 26 votes to 23. There being no further business, the Meeting closed. Jubilee Recreation Ground Fund. LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. KUCHING, 26TH NOVEMBER, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR. I enclose herewith a further list showing actual collections Wards the Jubilee Recreation Ground Fund, and shall be obliged if you will publish them in the next issue of the Sarawak Gazette. I am, Sir, Your obedient sonant, E. PARNELL, Treasurer, J.R.G.F Notice. We are asked to announce that Christmas and New Year Foreign greetings telegrams, and Inland Hari Raya, Christmas, and New Year greetings telegrams will be accepted at any Post Office in Sarawak during the period from 14th December, 1936, to 6th January, 1937, inclusive. 2. A flat rate of $1.75 per greeting of 10 words and 20 cents for each extra word is charged to all parts of the British Empire. 3. A reduced rate of 25 cents per greeting of 10 words and 3 cents for each extra word is charged to all places of Sarawak. 4. Greetings telegrams must bear the service indication =XLT- which is charged for as one word, and the text of the telegrams must be in the nature of greetings and written in plain language. 5. Rates to other places and full particulars may be obtained upon application at any Post Office. -------- Second Anniversary of the Sylvia Cinema. THE TWELVE BEST FILMS. At the end of the year it is customary for cinema critics to indulge in the singularly profitless but rather amusing occupation of cataloguing the best films that have appeared during the past twelve months. For weeks afterwards correspondents write to the paper which has the effrontery to employ the critic pointing out that bis ideas are all wrong, and that he doesn’t begin to know his job ; this is the invariable result of the critic having the temerity to express an opinion on a subject about which he is supposed to be an expert, and if I, though nothing more than an amateur, can by publishing my selection provoke criticisms from other amateurs. or better still, induce them to send in their own selections, my time will not have been wasted. Copy for the Gazette is always welcome. Any selection such as this is bound to be more or less arbitrary, and to depend to some extent on the personal likes and dislikes of the critic. At the same time it is possible to achieve a certain impartiality, and in. an effort to do this I have taken about thirty of the best films that have appeared at the Sylvia Cinema since its opening, and after much thought have reduced this number to twelve. Here they are, in approximate order of merit :— Resurrection. Modern Times. Ruggles of Red Gap.. Mutiny on the Bounty. Lives of a Bengal Lancer. Les Miserables. Whipsaw. The Scarlet Pimpernel. The House of Rothschild. The Thin Man. Friday 13th. David Copperfield. It will be noted that of these twelve films ten are American, and not less than three have Charles Laughton as the principal actor. Frederic March appears in two, and Charlie Chaplin, William Powell, Spencer Tracy, Gary Cooper and George Arliss in one each. W. C. Fields, that prince of comedians, makes one appearance, and Aubrey Smith two. Of the female stars we can include Myrna Loy (twice), and Jessie Mathhews and Merle Oberon—both British—once each. A signi¬ ficant fact is that in no less than eight of the films mentioned there is no real love interest, which seems to. indicate that producers are at last realising that glycerine tears and sob-stuff are not essential features of a popular film, and that their absence does not necessarily spell disaster from the box-office end. This is a development which shows that Hollywood is at last becoming civilised. Apart from Charlie Chaplin and Charles Laughton, the finest individual performances were those of Elizabeth Bergner in "Escape Me Never," a film that purposely is not included in my selection; Spencer Tracy in "Whipsaw," George Arliss in "The House of Rothschild'' and Edward G. Robinson in "The Man with Two Faces,"—also a film that also does not appear in the list. In a rather different category comes Jessie Matthews, and we can at least congratulate ourselves that if British films are outnumbered by ten to two, we have in Jessie Matthews an artist who has no rival in her own field on either site of the Atlantic. This fact is now recognized, incidentally, in America. No survey of the Sylvia Cinema’s films would he complete without some mention of Walt Disney’s Silly Symphonies. This man of genius is incapable of producing a mediocre picture, and out of a number of cartoons that were uniformly good 1 select "The Grasshopper and the Ants,’ "The Tortoise and the Hare," and "Mickey's Band Concert" as the three winners. In conclusion, we will all readily admit that during the past two years we have had the mair essential on which to base a selection,—plenty of good material. —N.E.H. Films of the Month. OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER. The films shown at the Sylvia Cinema during the past two months have been both unusually varied and unusually good. We have had every conceivable type of picture,—comedies, tragedies, crook plays, musical plays, light operas, and leg¬ shows, and the names of famous stars have flashed before in us such abundance that we have found ourselves a trifle dizzy amid such a galaxy of the great. Every week there lias been at least one first-class film, and sometimes two or even three; and by the expression "first-class” I mean a film that holds your attention all the time, and that makes you feel that you have had real value for money out of the price of your seat,—so much so, in fact, that you are prepared to pay to see it a second time. Among these first-class films was one work of genius and four films of quite outstanding merit. These are, respectively, Modern Times, Whipsaw, Dangerous, Captain Blood, and Rose Marie. Let us take the work of genius first. When Modern Times appeared in London, some critics said that the film was a disappointment, and that Charlie Chaplin was losing his old mastery. It is not easy to understand this view, since apart from the fact that the silent convention undoubtedly 'dates,' and so makes the production seem a trifle forced and artificial in places, the film is well nigh perfect. "Chariot" is there again with his familiar bowler hat, his shrunken morning coat, his concertina trousers, and his shabby boots, and from the moment of bis first appearance he leaves us in no doubt he has lost no single spark of his old fire. Charlie is a genius, a prodigy, and evidence of this fact is stamped all over every foot of the film; each situation is perfectly contrived and perfectly exploited, each point is made at once, but never overdone. Our laughter is loud and spontaneous, and the close of each episode leaves us wishing that it had been longer; surely no higher praise than this can be given. In this picture Charlie again typifies the ‘little man,’ the outcast, the puzzled plaything of forces he cannot control and does not understand. Tn a way Modern Times is propaganda,—propaganda against the machine age with its tyranny, its blind worship of speed and efficiency, its ruthless suppression of all individuality. It is also a picture of the ‘Eternal Tramp,’ that pathetic rebel against modern conventions who is beaten, starved and harried from pillar to post, but who in spite of all this possesses something that is denied to the people who despise, reject and imprison him,—freedom. Freedom of spirit such as the slaves of the machine can never know. To do justice to Modern Times one would have to recount every episode in d il, which is impossible. We can only outline  a few of the brighter moments in a film that was bright all the way through. Charlie the night watchman, for instance, roller-skating round a large and luxurious depart¬ ment store and punching the time-clocks with an airy nonchalance; Charlie in prison, unknowingly salting his dinner with cocaine and thereby achiev¬ ing an unusual truculence; Charlie in the patent feeding machine designed to eliminate lunch hours for factory hands, and so reduce working costs: Charlie having a nervous breakdown in the factory and gaily squirting the pompous faces of the Directors with lubricating oil; Charlie retrieving a red flag accidentally dropped by a passing lorry, and so all unwittingly becoming the leader of a communist procession.—each of these episodes is a work of art in itself, a jewel flashing out of the main setting of the picture, and the one occasion upon which Charlie becomes vocal,—when having lost the words of the French song he is to sing in a cafe, he manages to convey all the fire and verve of the original by means of unintelligible noises and more than Gallic gestures—is unforgettable. It is enough to say that at the dose of the per¬ formance we realised why the film had taken two years to make; we realised, also, that it was well worth all the care and money that had been expended on it. The incidental music, which was composed by Chaplin himself, is not the least of the attractions of this memorable entertainment. It fits in deliciously with the film, and lends it an added significance. In Paulette Goddard Chaplin has found an admirable leading lady,—easy to look at, intel- ligent, and what is much more important (though this is counted heresy in Hollywood), a finished actress. Even without the medium of sound to assist her, she caught to perfection the spirit of her part of a little street arab who finds her ideal in the tramp. Whipsaw was banned in Singapore,—why, good- nees knows. It is admittedly a crook play, since it deals with the successful pursuit of a gang of international jewel thieves by a G-Man. but it ends with the complete triumph of the law and includes only one scene of violence,—a piece of thrilling gun-play which lasts only a few seconds, and which surely could not have the slightest psychological effect on even the most ferocious of potential criminals. Whipsaw was superb enter- tainment in the style of The Thin Man.—a style which the Americans handle with such incom¬ parable efficiency. There was no dragging, and never an idle moment in the whole film; the story, which was exciting all the way through, and which worked up to a breath-taking climax, was admirably acted by a cast which was helped by first rate production. And when we say that in addition to all these advantages the G-Man was played by Spencer Tracy, and his quarry, the jewel thieves’ woman accomplice with whom he falls in love, by Myrna (what a woman!) Loy, it will be apparent that this was a picture well out of the ordinary rut. In Dangerous, a rather improbable plot was redeemed not only by the splendid acting of Bette Davis and Franchot Tone, but by polished pro¬ duction, which took one's mind off the unreality of the story, and which lifted this picture into the first-class grade. Captain Blood was another of Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer’s super-stupendous historical productions which came , as these ambitions films somehow seem to have a knack of doing when properly directed. It was very nearly as good, in fact, us Mutiny On The Bounty; all the scenes were well staged, and due respect was paid to the accuracies of the settings and costume. Rafael Sabatini's well-known story was followed fairly closely, and the result was an exciting and impressive film well worth watching. Some of the photography was splendid. Rose Marie although it took several liberties with the original story, gave us such good photo- graphy and singing of such unusual excellence that we forgave it the various departures from the Drury Lane plot, and listened entranced to Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy in their glorious rendering of the old favourites,—“Rose Marie” and "Indian Love Call.” To those who remember the Drury Lane chorus, the "Totem Tom-tom” song was disappointing, which is difficult to understand in view of the opportunities afforded by such a spectacular number. Other films worthy of mention are Show Them No Mercy, a kidnapping story, also banned in Singapore for no discernable reason. The Goose And The Gander, a comedy of modern America with Kay Francis and George Brent in the leading parts, and While Parents Sleep, a competent British production above the usual level. First Division News. OCTOBER. The following are extracts from a report by Mr. W. F. Dick, Resident First Division :— "1 left at 6 a.m. on October 12th on a visit to Simunjan, stopping at Sebangan, Jaie and Pendam on the way. The Sebangan Malays have made a road through their kampong and also a bridge over a stream which separated the upriver kampong from the bazaar; many new houses have been built and applications for more sites received, this all goes to show that the Malays in remote kampongs can be induced to take an interest in improving their kampongs when they are under the control of an energetic Native Officer. "Caterpillars which have been reported to have done so much damage to padi crops at 21st mile, Penrissen Road, and 26th mile, Simanggang Road, appear to have also done a lot of damage in the ulu Sadong and it is feared that there may be a shortage of padi in these districts next year; it is hoped, however, that the second crops sown may in many cases turn out well in spite of the late sowing.” Abang Zennorin. Probationary Native Officer, who arrived in Kuching on 13th October on transfer from Lundu, visited the following Land Dayak villages from the 21st mile, Penrissen Road, to the 15th mile, Simanggang Road.—Segu. Simpok, Setang, Petak, Sikok, Mambong, Sentah, Doras, Skrak and Quop. It would appear that these villages have heen visited once only by a European Administrative Officer during the past twelve years, and the report of ; Abang Zennorin’s tour makes it increasingly obvious that these villages should receive regular visits in the future. On October 21st. a verdict of death from drowning Was recorded at an inquiry into the death of an unknown Chinese whose body was found lying on the river bank in the vicinity of the Government Store, Kuching. Preparations towards Land Settlement in the Kuching District commenced during the month. All Tua-Tua Kampong have been informed of the advantages of, and reasons for. this Settlement of rights being undertaken. Further progress was made in connection with the bazaar scheme at the 10th mile. Penrissen Road. Notices of re-entry have been served upon people who have failed fulfil the conditions under which they received grants of land in 1917, and as a result of this action several Chinese have submitted appli¬ cations for shop-lots. Since all maintenance has ceased on the Simang- gang Road, a large hole approximately 8 feet x 14 feet x 13 feet has appeared at the 13th mile. It is now impossible for motor traffic to proceed to and from Serian. Unless this damage is repaired shortly, gardeners and traders along the road will experience great difficulty in obtaining supplies and in the transport of their produce. Two serious crimes appear in the records for Bau District for the month ; the first was a gang robbery at the 9th mile. Batu Kitang Road, where the Manager of Bukit Young Gold Mine was held up by a party of armed men and gold and cash to the value of about $4,000 taken. The crime was reported to the Siniawan police about 1.30 p.m. on the 23rd. The District Officer, Inspector Sirat and Police from Bau were on the spot some thirty minutes later. By 3.15 p.m. a strong force of Constabulary was Operating between the Bau District and Batu Kawah, investigations on the spot having indicated that this was the line of search. The Officer-in- Charge of the Sector. Mr. Kelley, took charge of the investigations that afternoon, and full details have already appeared in the Sarawak Gazette. The gold has been recovered and several arrests have been made. The Constabulary are to be congra¬ tulated on their prompt response to the S.O.S. from Bau. and for the subsequent recovery of the gold. The gold miners themselves deserve little sym¬ pathy since escorts were offered some time ago, and refused; the gold is never insured, and the date of despatch is not always kept secret. It is only a matter of weeks since the District Officer expressed his surprise to the Manager of Bukit Young that no robberies had taken place in the past, giving as his opinion that the hick would not last. On the night of October 30th the Kim Lee Mine was broken into and gold slag to the value of $100 taken. The thief was caught and the gold recovered. The District Officer, Bau, mentions that the existing state of affairs in the Left-Hand Branch is far from satisfactory. The Orang Kayas and Tua Kampongs appear to be at odds with each other, while the hoi polloi appear to be at odds with their Chiefs. If a Chief settles a case in his kampong, the losing party invariably opens a fresh case with some other Chief, and so it goes on. Government has endeavoured to break this deplorable habit by forbidding Chiefs to settle cases from kampongs other than their own, or if one of the parties is from another kampong, then the Chiefs must co-opcrate. Chiefs have been instructed to give the litigants two or three weeks, or even a month, in which to proceed to Bau and appeal, while the people have been informed that if they fail to comply with the ruling, or to open an appeal within a reasonable time, they may be • dealt with by Government for failing to follow the order of the Chief, irrespective of any other case they may have attempted to open elsewhere. Complaints were received against Orang Kaya Batch of Senah Negri at Brang Blimbin, Semeru, Parun and Seremut, interference and improper fines being amongst the charges. The complaining Chiefs were promptly ordered to accompany the party to Senah Negri and thrash the matter out; they at once climbed down and not a single one came to Senah Negri. The truth of the matter is that the boot is very much on the other foot. Orang Kaya Batch is the only Chief who attempts to follow out Government rules, and who keeps his kampong in order. Being able to write he keeps records and reports of a sort, which are invaluable, and moreover he resents, and prevents, interference. This attitude docs not suit the other Chiefs at the moment, hence the com¬ plaints which there is every reason to believe are but a tissue of lies. Previously, Orang Kaya Batch’s advice and opinions were sought by all the Senah and Brang Chiefs; now. however, an objectionable man named Orang Kaya Japar has taken his place. Dalian Rubber Estates harvested 24,000 lbs. of dry rubber during October. Rainfall at Bau totalled 6.30 inches and at Dahan 13.00 inches. A number of padi fields were inspected during a visit to the Left-Hand Branch and appeared quite healthy; complaints of pests were, however, common. The Land Dayaks generally in the Ban District are against planting padi twice a year, the chief reason being a shortage of swamp land. They also say that pantang would he doubled and that they would therefore have little or no time for other pursuits. The average price of gold during September was $58.61 per fine ounce, the total production being 1930.283 ounces. The Oriental Company obtained their first gold during September, processing some GO fine ounces from 1840 tons of ore. The following table gives the individual output of gold from the various mines for September, 1936 :—  This total of $6,518.38 is still fifteen hundred dollars short of what we hope to collect before the end of this year, for the Jubilee Bursary Fund. St. Michael’s Catholic Club, Kuching. ELECTION OF OFFICE-BEARERS. At the General Meeting held on the 1st November, 1936, the undermentioned gentlemen were elected Officers of the Club for the ensuing year :—  Sarawak Regatta 1937. PROGRAMME OF BOAT RACES TO BE HELD ON . SATURDAY, 2ND JANUARY, 1937. Race No. 1. TIME 9 A.M.—For boats with crews limited to 8 men and any type of boat. First prize $15, Second $7, Third $3. From Sungei Sinjan to Pangkalan Batu. Race No. 2. TIME 9.30 A.M.-Race for Perahu Kajang Skrat. Crew limited to 3 men, 2 rowing and 1 steering. From Sungei Sinjan to Pangkalan Batu. First $5, Second $3, Third $1.50. Race No. 3. TIME 10 A.M.—Any boat but with crews limited to 15 men. First prize $35, Second $20, Third $10. From Elir Tanjong Patingan to Pangkalan Batu. Race No. 4. TIME 10.30 A.M.—Race for Perahu Bandong Perantau. Crew limited to 10 men paddling : from Sungei Lajim to Pangkalan Batu. First prize $15, Second $10, Third $7.50. Race No. 5. TIME 11 A.M.—Any boat but with crews limited to 30 men. First prize $70, Second $40, Third $20. From Ulu Tanjong Patingan to Pangkalan Batu. Race No. 6. TIME 11.30 A.M.—For employees in Government and Mercantil Offices who are bona fide employees of such office during December, 1936. Crews limited to 8 paddlers in each boat. First prize $15, Second $7, Third $3. From Sungei Sinjan to Pangkalan Batu. Race No. 7. TIME 2 P.M.—Race for Ships' gigs from Sungei Gresik to Pangkalan Batu. Crew limited to 5 men. First prize $7.50, Second $5, Third $3. Race No. 8. TIME 2.30 P.M.—Any boat but with crews limited to 15 men. First prize $85, Second $20, Third $10. From Ban Seng Sago Factory to Pangkalan Batu. Race No. 9. TIME 3 P.M.—Race for Perahu Bundong Perantau. Grew limited to 5 men, 4 rowing and one steering : from Sungei Padungan to Pangkalan Batu. First prize $7.50, Second $5, Third $3. Race No. 10. TIME 3.30 P.M.—Any boat but with crews limited to 30 men. First prize $70, Second $40, Third $20. From Batu Baliong to Pangkalan Batu. Race No. 11. TIME 4 P.M.—Race for Perahu Balok limited to crew of 5. From Sungei Padungan to Pangkalan Batu. First prize $7.50, Second $5, Third $3. Race No. 12. TIME 4.80 P.M.—Any boat but with crews limited to 15 men, which have not finished first in Races Nos. 3 and 8. First prize $35, Second $20, Third $10. From Ban Seng Sago Factory to Pangkalan Batu. There will be an entrance fee of $1 per boat for the 15 men races and $2 per boat for the 30 men races. Applications for entries of boats in each race should be forwarded to the District Officer, Kuching, so as to arrive not later than 24th December, 1936. Entries received after this date will not be accepted. Those boats whose entries have not been accepted by the above, will not be allowed to take part in the race. W. F. DICK, Chairman, Sarawak Regatta, 1937. Kuching’s New Theatre. LILIAN THEATRE’S OPENING NIGHT. An audience of nearly 900 was present at the opening night of the Lilian Theatre, the palatial new building which has been constructed on the site of the former Globe Theatre. The proprietors generously allowed their first performance to take the form of a concert in aid of the Race-course Development Fund, and we Understand that as a result of their public-spirited action more than $1,000 was collected towards this deserving cause. The concert party itself was staged by the Sara¬ wak Constabulary Bangsawan Party, assisted by their "Good Companions,—a party of Europeans distinguished for their musical accomplishments— and great credit is due both to the organisers and performers for a thoroughly enjoyable entertain¬ ment. The show started at 8.30 p.m., and a packed house, which included Their Highnesses the Rajah and Tuan Muda, the Dayang Valeric and Dayang Anne, and leading members of all communities, sat down to enjoy a bangsawan that was well up to professional standard. The company were for¬ tunate enough to have secured the services of Miss Rose, late of the Manila Sunshine Revue Company, a charming and attractive actress whose talents were employed to very good purpose not only in the play itself, but also in the numerous variety turns with which it was interspersed. The Sarawakian Melody Makers, under the leadership of Inspector Abang Joini, played some attractive kronchong. and G. Solosa and His Band lived up to their reputation and provided some catchy dance music and numerous tuneful accompaniments. The Sarawak Constabulary Bangsawan Party again proved their worth as an entertainment team, all performers bringing to their parts a zest that ensured a successful evening. Inspectors Abang Haji Mustapha and Gregory Solosa were convincing as a Javanese and a Malay diamond merchant respectively, and Mr. Lim Ah Ann was first rate in the role of a Chinese goldsmith. Other members of the cast were uniformly good, but Mr. Lichai must be singled out for special praise; this actor is a born comedian if ever there was one, and his every speech and gesture showed a real sense of the theatre. He took the part of an Indian cloth merchant with outstanding success, and his entrance was invariably (and deservedly) greeted with laughter and applause. Some of the other actors, incidentally, would do well to take lessons from him in the art of voice production, since each syllable he spoke was audible at the far end of the hall, which unfortunately was not always the case with some of the other performers. The Bangsawan was divided into two acts separated by a musical interlude which was filled in by "The Good Companions." Mr. F. Harding rendered a tenor solo which was much appreciated, and the performance of the Harmonica Quintet consisting of Messrs. Kelley, Reid, Sinclair, Chater and Dr. Hutchison produced thunderous applause and repeated demands for encores. Unfortunately, Mrs. Kelley, who was to have given an exhibition of dancing, was prevented from appearing by a last minute indisposition, but her place was very ably taken by Mrs. Kennedy. Amongst the variety turns must be mentioned rhe "Drolleries" of Miss Rose and Mr. Lichai, in the course of which Miss Rose distinguished herself by playing a number of musical instruments, including a saxophone and a ukulele. This lady was also excellent in a song and dance scene. Our thanks are due to Messrs. The Borneo Co., Ltd., Sime, Darby & Co., Ltd., Chong Kim Eng and the proprietors of the Lilian Theatre, through whose generosity free refreshments were offered which naturally did much to contribute to the success of the evening. Rumours have reached us, incidentally, that after the audience had departed a further extemporary bangsawan was staged which continued until the small hours, and which eventually concluded on Pengkalan Batu where a few sleepy tambang men Were agreeably surprised to hear the strains of Malay music, and to see Miss Rose give a special song-and-dance turn. The following extract from the programme gives some account of the Lilian Theatre itself:— "The present is an excellent opportunity to congratulate the Proprietors now that after many months of hard work and planning, this magni- ficient building has arisen in Kuching's "West End." No expense or labour has been spared in introducing into this building almost every modem device and improvement in the interest of the comfort and safety of the audience. The interior, with its tasteful decoration, lighting effects, coloured flooring and arrangement of balconies, is spacious and airy. The number of windows is adequate and several ceiling fans are installed to keep the air fresh and cool. Built at an approximate cost of $65,000 to accommodate more than 800 persons, the Lilian Theatre combines the functions of a Cinema with that of a Theatre or Concert Hall and has the latest type of film projection and sound apparatus, and a large fully equipped stage with dressing rooms and orchestra pit. It is the largest place of entertainment in the town and its stage and stage-accessories fill a much needed want. The audience will he accommodated in comfortable seats allowing ample leg room, and an excellent and unobstructed view of the stage or screen is obtainable from the balconies and gallery. The sanitary arrange. ts also have been carefully planned and are most up-to-date. Two very spacious bars are provided within the building, and all manner of liquor will be on sale. Outside, a large car-park is in course of con¬ struction and a popular innovation is the allot¬ ment of space for small stalls from which ice-cream, fruits, chocolates, lemonade and native delicacies may be purchased. The building of this theatre has given employ¬ ment to many, all chairs and seats have been made in Kuching and the timber is, of course, all Sarawak grown. The material used in the construction and furnishing is almost ent’rely British, and we are particularly glad to notice the large number of rubber tiles used in the entrance and on the stairs. Every facility has been provided for an emergency, fire-extinguishers are placed at strategic points and sufficient exits to enable the entire Theatre to be emptied in one or two minutes. We wish the Proprietors every success in the future of their Theatre.” Below is a list of those responsible for the pro¬ duction and organization of the concert :—  Third Division News. OCTOBER. On October 12th a Dayak named Jeluieng anak Engkulau was sentenced at Sibu to three years' imprisonment for harbouring an offender, the offence being punishable with death, with the intention of screening him from punishment. This is a similar case to that of the two Dayaks Makau and Sirat, who were tried early in the year for helping the rebels Kendawang and Kayan after the attack on the Kayan boat near the Pelagus rapids. Two coroner’s inquests were held at Sibu during the month, one on the body of a Chinese child which died on a motor launch between Sarikei and Sibu, and the other on the body of a Malay who died in a bandong between Matu and Sibu. Findings of death from natural causes were returned in each case. Mr. D. Duclos arrived at Sibu on October 6th and took over his duties as Assistant Superintendent of Rubber Restriction on the 7th. The Rubber Restriction Department is now housed in the Public Works Office. The Assistant Superintendent has made visits to all Checker-Supervisors and the experimental plots at Kanowit, Sungei Pradom, Binatang and Sarikei, and has found the work proceeding satisfactorily. The Lee Hua Sawmill was visited by the Divisional Forest Officer on October 10th. The mill was cutting kapor, of which the mill has a large stock, and small down-river geronggang. As a result of the prolonged drought this year the mill has no stock of hill softwoods. It is in the course of being extended th accommodate two extra benches for sawing belian attaps and the pendulum cross cut which has been purchased from the Kanowit Mill. H.H.M.Y. Maimuna arrived at Sibu on October 9th with the Dayang Anne, Mr. A. W. D. Brooke, the Resident and Mrs. Adams, and Miss Putnam. Mr. A. W. D. Brooke left later for Meluan, where he is to be stationed, accompanied by the District Officer, Meluan, Mr. A. Macpherson. Dayang Anne, accompanied by Mrs. Sochon, left for Kuching in the Maimuna on the 16th. During the last few days of October considerable floods were experienced on Sibu Island. These were due to the heavy fresh from up river, which brought down large quantities of driftwood, the accumulation of the months of comparatively dry weather. The District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports that very few Dayaks were seen during the month until the start of the tapping holiday, when as usual they came down in swarms. There are a considerable number of Kampar Dayaks from Kanowit, Song, and Kapit tapping rubber in this district. They are causing no trouble, however, and in most cases are heartily welcomed by the local Dayaks, who find they have not enough time io combine rubber tapping with successful padi-planting. Shortly after the departure of the Chinese Circus from Sarikei, a young unmarried Malay girl was found to be missing from the kampong. She was discovered the same evening in Binatang, disguised as a boy, and with her hair cut short. The attractions of the sawdust-ring (or of one of the performers in it), had apparently proved stronger than filial affection. Dayaks and Malays are all showing keen interest in the coming regatta at Sibu, but it is not expected that many boats will be entered from the Lower Rejang district. The knowledge that the Melanau boats will be racing has discouraged nearly all but the expert paddlers of Penghulu Kana’s district. Padi-planting is now complete throughout the Lower Rejang district, and applications are already being received for rat-poison. Leaflets concerning pig-poison for the protection of sago gardens were received from the Agricultural Department, and were distributed to planters in the Matu and Daro area. An effort is being made to induce the Melanaus to use more up-to-date methods in protecting their gardens from animal pests. It is interesting to note that with the low price of pepper and the rising price of rubber Binatang has now surpassed Sarikei in value of exports, haring nearly doubled the figures for last year. Just over 1,300 pikuls of pepper were exported from Sarikei. Big stocks are still being held for a rise in prices. The Court Writer’s quarter Sarikei, were duly completed, and were occupied by Mr. T. E. Parker, Settlement Officer, who will remain in this building until the completion of the new European bungalow. Tenders were invited for the construction of a third European bungalow at Sarikei, and negotia¬ tions were opened for the acquisition of a suitable site. Many new cracks have unfortunately appeared in the piling of Sarikei wharf being discovered during the exceptionally low tides early in the month. It is very difficult to discover and repair such cracks as they are normally under water at low tide. Full details of this damage have been reported to the Public Works Department. The cracks in Binatang godow are much worse, and the addition of further earth  ing outside the walls has not. as the contractor expected, had the effect of springing the concrete beams back into place. The following is an extract from a report by Mr. F. L. Crossley, Acting District Officer, Lower Rejang :— "Accompanied by Abang Ottun, N.O., I toured the Dayaks of Penghulu Kana’s district, in the Lower Delta, from October 15th to the 18th, visiting ten houses in the Stubah, Mupong, Semah and Paloh. The fanning laud in this area is excellent, and has in the past given rise to bitter disputes between the Malays and Dayaks. Kana's people now seem to be living amicably with the Malays, but very bitter com¬ plaints were made by both Malays and Dayaks concerning the activities of Penghulu Ikau’s people. During the last five years these Dayaks, from the Leba’an and elsewhere, have been gradually drifting down into the Stubah and Mupong and fanning there without getting permission from the local inhabitants. The position is now so bad that Penghulu Ikau himself, who I understand has at present no long-house in his own district, spends most of his time in a so-called farming-hut of 30 doers right in the middle of Kana’s district, while others among Ikau’s anembiak have practically deserted their own long-houses and are living in similar ramshackle long-house fanning huts in the Stubah, Mupong, and even as far down as Paloh and Sedit. 1 recommend that Ikau be ordered back to his own district and stopped from fanning in Kana’s territory, and that his anem- biak be given the option of either building proper houses and coming under Kana's authority, or of clearing out. It will he recollected that it was Ikau and his anembiak who were responsible for tuba-fishing in Kana’s district last May, and that these people scoffed at the authority of Kana, whom I sent to stop the fishing." H.H.M.Y. Maimuna, with the Dayang Anne, Mr. A W. D. Brooke, the Resident and Mrs. Adams. Miss F. Putnam, and Rev. Fr. Epping arrived in Sarikei from Kuching on October 8th and left for Sibu on the 9th. The Maimuna party, together with the Sarikei European Officers, attended a performance of the Chinese Circus on the evening of the 8th. The District Officer, Meluan, states that there has been a good response to His Highness the Rajah's wish that Dayaks should plant crops other than padi. It is not expected that there will be any application for Government assistance from those houses whose padi suffered from rats and pigs as it is hoped that the large areas of empassa, etc., planted will be sufficient to tide the people over. Tn the District Officer's opinion, the enthusiasm shown is quite genuine and will be sustained. Enquiries for coffee seed are continually being received, and the Senior Agricultural Officer has been communicated with. If any particular variety of kapok is recommended, it is suggested that supplies of this seed could also be distributed. As much of the panto has been worked out in recent years, the planting of sago is also being encouraged, both as a substitute for rice if padi fails, and also for pig food. The number of pigs fattened by Dayaks for sale to Chinese is increasing, and this should prove a valuable source of income for them. As regards the Kanowit padi-farming experiment, the Dusuns have finished demonstrating in Ranan and Tuah. and have completed their irrigation surveys for the farms which will be brought into cultivation next year. The Rev. Father Klerk expressed his gratification at the industry displayed by Empam’s house in the Ranan, where he told the District Officer the entire population has been turning out daily to hoe their communal farm to assist the ploughing buffaloes which are still too young to do much hard work. It is to ho hoped that the Agricultural Depart¬ ment will be able to start the demonstration farm and plantations as soon as possible, in order that every encouragement and assistance may be given to ensure the success of this, for Dayaks, entirely new departure in padi farming. It is surely not too much to hope that the answer to the whole Dayak problem lies here. _________ The Rubber Improvement work continues, showing good results. The confiscation of badly smoked rubber is speedily having effect on Dayak producers and smokehouse owners. The District Officer, Meluan, states that it is to be hoped that the Poi Dayaks have learnt their lesson as regards tuba fishing, as a great deal of ill-feeling against T.R. Nyanggau has been expressed. Other rivets report a marked increase in "hand scoop" catches already as a result of the prohibition, and there seems to be general feeling of satisfaction about which is quite surprising. During the month a boat was bought for the new 9 b.p. motor at Meluan, with resulting increase in speed and economy. The boat with the engine in it got adrift during a spate. Both boat and engine were recovered, the former was unharmed but it is feared the engine suffered considerable damage through its six-day immersion. On October 27th a Dayak youth aged only about 9 years was charged at Kapit under section C—8 of the Tustin tunggu for causing the death of another youth aged about 13 years. Apparently accused, deceased and several other small boys on hearing a pig hunt taking place near the house, seized spears and reached the pig. which was being bayed, before the hunters; the pig on seeing them charged, and all fled for the nearest tree, but unfortunately the accused dropped his spear in the path of deceased, and the point being held up by brushwood entered deceased’s groin killing him almost instantly; the accused youth was severely warned and his father was ordered to pay $60 pati nyawa to the parents of deceased. Kapit Penghulus have been informed that at the forthcoming Sibu Regatta an aum will probably be held to consider the present tusun tunggu, and a considerable number of suggestions have already been received respecting changes in the present adat which they wish to bring forward. Engkabang in Kapit district is reported to have suffered from the incessant heavy rain at the end of the month, the fruit in many cases not having formed before the rains came. In the Katibas flowering was not good as it was in the Tekalit. As a result of high water a considerable number of logs have been brought down from above Kapit especially from the Oyan district. Chop Lee Hua (41 parties) rafted 437 logs to Sibu, and Chop Hua Seng (7 parties) rafted 40 logs. The following are extracts from a report on a trip to the Ulu by Mr. D. R. Lascelles. Acting District Officer Kapit :— "On October 8th I left Song for Katibas in the outboard, accompanied by Native Officer Abang Indeh and Penghulu Bedimbab. As the water was beginning to fall we decided to make hay while the sun shone and proceeded straight up to the house of Penghulus Sirai and Briak tor the night, arriving 4 p.m., after a short call at Rumah Empikau, Sungei Mean. Heavy rain occurred and the river began to rise again with the result that on 9th we were able to continue using the outboard and calling at Rumah Malleh, Rumah Serunggan and Rumah Rengan, we spent the night at Rumah Belaja. The day before we arrived a large crocodile had pulled an old woman out of a boat; she was rescued but died almost immediately from her extensive injuries. This crocodile has inhabited the particular pool for many years but apparently this is the first time anyone has been attacked. Tuai Rumah Belaja is probably Government’s most trusted ally in the Katibas, and I would place him before the Peug- hulus in that respect. "On 10th we reached the Pala Manoa Rumah Sliong for the night after calling at Rumah Baring. "Proceeding downstream on 11th we caught a glimpse of the guilty crocodile below Rumah Belaja but had no chance of a shot.” The District Officer, Mukah, reports that a further case of grave robbery occurred at Kampong Tega, and although very thorough investigations have been and are being made, and a reward of $50 has been offered for information, no arrests have been made so far. A tour of the ulu Mukah by Native Officer Abang Mustapha reveals the fact that Dayaks have but little, if any, of this year’s padi left, and that floods have already partially destroyed their newly-planted crops. It is hoped that activity in this district on the part of the Sarawak Oilfields. Ltd., may lead to a demand for their labour, which will relieve the situation. Messrs. Crowther and Lilley, of Sarawak Oil¬ fields, Ltd., Miri, arrived in the Mukah district during the month and requested permission to start access works, i.e., wharves, roads, bridges, etc., from Mukah to the 8.O.L. Camp at Sungei Matedieng. Permission for them to do this has been obtained. The Company has also obtained a concession for prospecting for oil along the coast, and inland from Sungei Matedieng. There has been a certain amount of tuba fishing in the Ulu Oya. A serious view is taken of this as Penghulu Untol is concerned, together with three local Tuai Tuai Rumah. A separate report has been submitted. The following is an extract from the report of Mr. J. C. B. Fisher. Acting District Officer, Oya:- "On October 5th Wan Hussein, Native Officer, proceeded to the Ulu Oya by outboard motor Paddy and travelled all districts. The objects of this visit were to collect outstanding tax and fines, hear cases, and give the usual routine orders. On 20th I left Dalat for Nanga Pakoh to meet Wan Hussein and Penghulus Untol and Chindang and discuss Ulu affairs with them on the spot. "Matters of importance to be attended to included the following :— (a) the rebuilding of various houses; (b) the area of jurisdiction of the Peng¬ hulus, which has got confused by houses moving from one river to another; and (c) a report concerning a tuba fishing held by Untol in August. "All these matters were attended to on the 21st at Nanga Pakoh. In connection with the latter it appears that Penghulu Untol and Tuai Rumahs Medan, Nyanau and Lumbok had all been tuba fishing during August. A serious view is taken of these cases as very definite orders had been given to these people personally be myself last April. A separate report has been submitted to the Resident, Third Division. "Dayaks in the Ulu are feeling the effects of their last bad harvest and are badly off for rice. Reports of this year’s planting are very favourable, however. "All outstanding tax for past years is now paid to date with the exception of some 20 doors for the current year. All outstanding fines have been paid.” Melanau fishing was at a standstill at Oya during the month owing to very rough seas. Reports received last month about the engkabang trees flowering in the Ulu Oya again this year, were confirmed. Judging by the amount of blossoms there should be a large crop this year. The price of raw sago increased again on the figures for last month, the price at Dalat being 80 cents per passu, and at the Kut 90 cents. This is the highest price recorded for two years. The amount of raw sago exported from the District showed a decrease compared with the figures for last month, the amount,being :—  The Sunshine Manila Revue, a bangsawan which arrived from Mukah, played at Dalat to crowded houses during the month. Fourth Division News. -------------- OCTOBER. A month otherwise entirely free from serious crime at Miri was marred by two events; on October 21st Mok, Tua Kampong Dagang, was convicted on a charge of converting public monies to his own use, and was sentenced to one year's rigorous imprisonment. On the 31st a man and a woman were found killed in a lodging house in Jeraya Eu Seng. The inquest had not yet been held at the end of the month. Dayaks and Malays in the Niah, Sibuti aud Suai rivers are busy on their farms, and the bird’s- nests caves at Niah have just been opened. The nests are rather poor this year. The following table gives the Miri trade figures for October :— The new pig slaughter-house at Sungei Krokop, Miri, was put into use on October 19th, the old one being immediately pulled down. Several roads were repaired, and the road behind the European bungalows on Tanjong Lobang was completed. Minor repairs to Government buildings at Niah and Sibuti were carried out. A case of suicide, reported by Penghulu Wee, was investigated at Limbang. An old Tagal woman had taken tuba apparently in a fit of melancholia at not being able to return to North Borneo to see her equally aged sister. The reported epidemic of pneumonia in the ulu Limbang was confirmed by the Limbang dresser, who made a visit up river. About thirty deaths had occurred, and it is understood that this epidemic is annually recurrent owing to local climatic conditions. Quite a number of Muruts and Dayaks came down from the ulu to Limbang during the month, including Penghulu Wee, Dayak, and Penghulus Belulok and Tamanok Oyau (Tabun/Murut). Several matters were discussed and it appears that the padi planting has been satisfactorily completed everywhere. There were many applications from Dayaks for passes to work jelutong in other districts. Since the wireless engine at Limbang required the attention of a special mechanic from Kuching, the opportunity was taken to get all the telephone installations overhauled, and the local police were instructed in the rational manipulation of the Kubu switch-board. The Government monopoly of sales of ammu¬ nition has brought to light a few ancient unregis¬ tered weapons in the hands of far ulu Kelabits and Muruts. They have been confiscated. At a meeting of Tuai Rumahs which was con¬ vened at Sebauh, Bintulu District, on October 28th, the inhabitants of the Pandan River were informed that Jana anak Usop bad been appointed their Penghulu, as the district had grown too large to be managed conveniently by one man. Only one dissentient voice was raised and that was by a relation of the new Penghulu, who complained that it was difficult to get a meal in the Penghulu's room owing to the meanness of his wife. The new poison supplied by the Agricultural Department for getting rid of pests in the rice crops was distributed to all communities in the Bintulu district, but results are not yet to hand. Mr. Bormond of the Sarawak Electricity Supply, Ltd.. Sibu, arrived at Bintulu on the Auby in order to investigate the prospects of installing electricity at this station. He returned to Sibu by m.v. Margaret. The Rev. G. V. Summers of the Methodist Episcopal Mission, Sibu, arrived at Bintulu by the Margaret on October 29th on a visit to the Foochow colony, Sebauh. Towards the end of last month there was an outbreak of whooping cough in the Baram kampongs and bazaar. Almost every child below the age of ten years was infected, and two deaths were said to have occurred from this cause. The Curator of the Sarawak Museum arrived at Baram on October 22nd, and, accompanied by Native Officer Tuanku Mohamed, started for Long Akah on the 26th. He intended visiting the Pata and returning to Marudi from Long Akah by way of the Tinjar before proceeding up the Tutoh and Apoh. Since he left the river has been steadily rising, the kampongs and the bazaar are already flooded,—and it is doubtful whether he will be able to go much further than Long Kelimau. He has been commissioned to investigate the causes of the rice shortage and to make provision against a recurrence, and against the various pests, also to determine which villages are still in need of relief. The original vote of $5,000 was finished on October 10th. and a further $1,000 has been voted for emergencies, but to be used only at the discretion of the Resident; after, one presumes, the result of the Curator's investigations are known. The Tinjar natives, who have managed to last so far without relief, are now applying. They have been sent home to await the Curator’s arrival in their villages. From the latest news it seems that many villages above Long Akah will be able to last on rice substitutes planted until the harvest, and possibly another $1,000 in addition to that already granted should suffice for this year. Certain Kenyahs from the Akah returning home with rice obtained by Government assistance sank during the high water in rapids below Long Akah. Much of their rice and other provisions were lost. Mohamad Zin Galau returned from up-river on the 30th, and with his family narrowly escaped drowning near the mouth of the Tutoh. His boat struck a submerged log and filled with water. Fortunately a drifting tree trunk was nearby, and they all managed to cling to this until the boat was righted. Wan Suror, accompanied by Wan Haji Mohamad, left for the Bakong river on October 30th to arrange about the timber for Beluru fort, and to obtain the opinions of the inhabitants concerning a successor to Penghulu Rhu. The latter is very old and wishes to retire. After several days and nights of exceptionally heavy and continuous rain, a landslide occurred opposite Baram Fort and a portion of the bank has disappeared into the river, exposing the. rock beneath. The Lawas Courts were completely idle during the month, only one very small civil suit arising for decision. The Officer-in-Charge remarks that this possibly constitutes a record. There was, however, yet another inquest, bringing the number of sudden deaths requiring investigation during the year to a total of five, all these having occurred in the past two months,—again possibly a record for Lawas. This last inquest was on the body of a Brunei Malay who was taken from his prahu by a crocodile one early morning at Kuala Lawas. Medical examination revealed that the cause of death was drowning, the only injuries to the body being the crocodile’s teeth marked on deceased's head. A verdict of accidental death was returned. The following is an extract from a report by Mr. A. R. Snelus, Officer-in-Charge, Lawas and Trusan, on a visit to the ulu 'I spent a couple of days upriver visiting the Muruts in the ulu Lawas Damit and the lower reaches of the ulu Trusan. Farms appeared to be prospering aud good crops are indicated. All was very quiet and there were no cases to be settled nor complaints of any nature. I was surprised at the number of Muruts living in tiny padi sulaps. Long houses are gradually disappear¬ ing altogether, it seems, for the death rate is so high that when after two years it is necessary to build a house of four doors, there are probably only two families left alive. These two families then build two separate sulaps and live apart rather than join another long house. "Several Poi Dayaks arrived in Lawas at the beginning of the month to look for work, having travelled by Kuching. They spent about ten days in the ulu Lawas and brought down some damar, but the price they obtained for it was so poor that they decided it had not been worth the trouble.’’ The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 36,736 lbs. of dry rubber during the month. — Visitors to Lawas were numerous during October. The District Officer, Sipitang, B.N.B., and his cadet assistant spent the week-end of the 10th - 12th at Lawas, bringing with them their local football team, who defeated the weak Lawas side after a vigorous contest in which four Europeans partici- On the 17th the Resident of Labuan and the Settlement Engineer arrived from Labuan in the Lady Clementi, departing again on the 19th. The District Officer. Limbang, arrived on duty on 23rd. He was followed by the Senior Forest Officer, also on duty, who arrived on the 30th and was still at Lawas at the end of the month. Badminton Tournament. DOUBLES. Inspired by the very interesting and successful tournaments held by the Kuching Badminton Associa¬ tion a few months ago, a number of members of the Junior Service stationed at Miri decided to put their heads together in an endeavour to promote badminton locally, and as a result a tournament on the knock¬ out system was arranged and concluded on 11 th November. 1936. Judging from the keenness of competitors and number of enthusiastic spectators present during the matches, it is anticipated that before long many more will take to this game, which is perhaps the only suitable outdoor recreation available here during the wet season. The results of the tournament are tabulated below:—   