THE Sarawak Gazette. PRICE KUCHING, Saturday, February 1st, 1936. 20 CENTS. The Sarawak Gazette SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1st. 1936. Marriage. The marriage between Mr. Kony Choo Gean. of the staff of the Sunny Hill School, Kuching and Miss Shim Nyuk Eng will take place at the Seventh-Day Adventist Chapel. Penang, on Sunday, 16th February, 1956. DEATH OF HIS MAJESTY KING GEORGE THE FIFTH. His Majesty King George the Fifth died at Sandringham House at 11.55 p.m. on Monday, January 20th. The sail news was conveyed to His Highness the Rajah by telegram early the following morning. All flags throughout the State were at once half-masted. and in the afternoon the. Government offices in Kuching were closed as a mark of respect. The following telegram was despatched by His Highness the Rajah to His Excellency the British Agent for Sarawak: — "The news of His Majesty’s death has been received here with profound sorrow. On behalf of myself and my officers and all inhabitants of Sarawak I ask you to convey the expression of our deepest sympathy to Her Majesty the Queen and all members of the it Royal Family.- On January 22nd a telegram was received to say that His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales would be proclaimed King on that day, and the following proclamation was published by command of His Highness the Rajah in the form of a Government Gazette Extraordinary :— "Whereas it has pleased Almighty God to call from this mortal life our late Sovereign Lord King George the Fifth of happy memory : "Now, Therefore. We, Charles Vyner Brooke, Rajah of Sarawak. Knight Grand Cross of the Most. Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George, do hereby announce and proclaim that His Royal Highness Edward, Prince of Wales, is now become and has this day been proclaimed our rightful Sovereign Lord. Edward the Eighth by the Grace of God of Great Britain and the British Dominions beyond the Seas King. Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India. "Whom We and all Our subjects and all His Majesty's subjects in this Our Raj of Sarawak do acknowledge and acclaim. "Given at Kuching, this twenty-second day of January in the year of Our Lord One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.” GOD SAVE THE KING. His Highness also stated that it was his wish that all Europeans in Sarawak should wear appropriate mourning until after the funeral of His Late Majesty. On January 28th, the day on which the royal funeral took place, the Government offices in Kuching were closed, and a memorial service was held at St. Thomas’ Pro-Cathedral, the sermon being preached by the Venerable Archdeacon Hollis. A memorial service was also held at St. Joseph's Church, and in accordance with the suggestion of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, two minutes' silence was observed at 1.30 p.m., (local time), a gun being fired from Fort Margherita to mark the commencement and termination of the silence. Later in the day the following telegram was received from the Secretary of State for the Colonies: — "I am desired by Queen Mary to request you to convey to His Highness the Rajah of Sarawak the sincere thanks of Her Majesty and members of the Royal Family for the kind message of sympathy in their great kiss which was transmitted in your telegram of 21st January.” Flags were flown again at the mast-head on January 29th. The news of the death of His Majesty King George the Fifth was received in Sarawak with the most profound and heartfelt regret. Although the Wireless Press News, by transmitting the bulletins broadcast from Sandringham, had enabled us to follow the course of the King's had illness, the severity of this illness was not generally realized until the receipt of the message which announced that the life of His Majesty was drawing peacefully to its close. The shock of His Majesty's death, however, was in no way lessened by the fact that when the news came it was not entirely unexpected. It is now evident that His Majesty had been in failing health for some months past, but this was not known in Sarawak, and the news that the King was dying was received everywhere with the greatest concern and dismay. Even in the face of the wireless messages, it was difficult to believe the truth, since only a few days earlier His Majesty appeared to be in his customary health and spirits; the tragedy was heightened, too. by memories of the scenes that marked the Jubilee only a few short months ago. It seemed at first impossible to believe that the central figure of all that pageantry and splendour had passed from us for ever, and that the King, upon whom the loyally and devotion of a world-wide Empire had been focussed during those memorable days last May, had indeed been culled to his eternal rest. Although the inhabitants of Sarawak do not owe direct allegiance to the British Crown, it is safe to say that to all of them who maintain any contact with the outside world the King was more than the mere symbol of the protecting power. He was no distant and unreal figure, but a living personality whose influence could be felt even in the farthest coiners of the territories that acknowledged his sovereignty. With his passing we have lost a ruler and a leader, who, perhaps more than any of his predecessors, had the welfare of the Empire close to his heart, and to whose guidance the Empire owes an irreparable debt. We mourn a great sovereign. —one to whom duty was the breath of life, and one who has indeed deserved well of his subjects and the world. THE ROYAL FUNERAL. IMPRESSIVE CEREMONIAL. The following account of the lying-in-state and funeral of His Late Majesty King George V is taken from the British Official Wireless Press News. January 27th, 1936. The last day of the lying-in-state of the body of King George has seen an unbroken continuation of the vast concourse which has made the pilgrimage since Friday morning to pay homage before the Catafalque in Wesminster Hall. Driving rain during most of the day failed to disperse or apparently to lessen the crowds which assembled in a queue many deep which at one time reached a length of three miles. In order not to disappoint mourners, who have come from all parts, the authorities have again arranged for the Hall to remain open into the early hours of the morning and the doors will not be shut officially till 4 p.m. only some seven hours before the coffin is due to start on the. last journey to Windsor. Manx foreign Royalties and Heads of State or their representatives and distinguished foreign statesmen arrived in England to-day to attend the funeral of King George to-morrow. The King of Denmark and the King of Belgians arrived this afternoon, and also the President of the French Republic. Monsieur Lebrun. Naval escorts were provided across the channel, and they were received at Dover with a royal salute of guns. The Crown Prince of Sweden and Crown Prince of Italy also reached London this afternoon, other distinguished arrivals including Prince George and Prince Nicholl of Greece. President Lebrun, who is staying at the French Embassy, is accompanied by the new French Foreign Minister, Monsieur Flandin. The royal visitors were met at Victoria Station by the Duke of Gloucester and the Duke of Kent. To-morrow the coffin of the late King will be removed from the Catafalque in Westminster Hall, where it has received the homage of hundreds of thousands of his subjects in the last four days, and borne in precession along four miles of London streets to Paddington, where it will be placed in the funeral coach for Windsor. Immediately behind the gun-carriage with the coffin will walk His Majesty King Edward, followed by the members of the British and foreign royal families on fool, and Her Majesty Queen Mary in a carriage. The gun-carriage will be preceded by a military and naval procession a mile long. Troops in the procession will be dismounted, and will march in slow time with arms reversed. Minute guns will lie fired in Hyde Park and at the Tower of London from the time the procession leaves Westminster Hall till it has reached Paddington about two hours later. At Windsor, where the late King will be buried with honours of an Admiral of the Fleet, as soon as the gun-carriage to which the coffin will be transferred at Windsor Station reaches St. George's Chapel the dead King will he "piped along." and as the hearer company of Grenadier Guards carries the coffin into the Chapel, he will be "piped aboard.” The close of the service will coincide with the two minutes’ silence which will be observed throughout the country. Some fifteen hundred wreaths from mourners in every port of the world and of every degree, from kings to the poorest of the late King's subjects, had reached Windsor Castle this morning and all day hundreds more have been arriving. They have come from foreign royalties including the Emperor of Japan, the King of Italy, the Emperor of Ethiopia and the ex-Kaiser, from foreign and Empire Governments, from Municipalities, institutions and organizations of every kind, as well as from individuals. They include most magnificent and complicated examples of floral art and a few simple snowdrops sent by an East End London child. Queen Mary went to Westminster Hull again this evening and stood before the coffin of the late King for some minutes. The Queen Mother Was accompanied by the members of her family as well as foreign royalties who are staying at Buckingham Palace. While the royal party remained, the procession of the public was interrupted. During the day other foreign royalties and representatives of foreign countries arriving in London for the funeral visited Westminster Hall to pay homage at the Catafalque. Most elaborate preparations have been made to deal with the vast crowds which will mass themselves along the route of the royal funeral procession to-morrow. All parts of the route will be closed to vehicular traffic from 8 a.m., and the police have arranged for carefully planned traffic diversions. January 28th. A vast multitude, paid its final homage to King George the Fifth, when his mortal remains were borne in funeral procession through the streets of London and were buried this afternoon in St. George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, in the presence of a congregation including world-wide representatives of lands where his memory is honoured. The coffin, draped in the Royal Standard, and surmounted by the Imperial Crown, the Orb and Sceptre, and the Insignia of the Order of the Garter, rested on a gun-carriage drawn by a naval gun's crew. Upon it rested a single floral emblem placed there by the mourning Queen. As the mile-long procession began its slow march from Westminster Hall the first of the seventy minute gnus was fired in Hyde Park. At its head walked the First and Second Divisions of the escort of Royal Horse Guards supported by the hands of the Third Carabineers and of thee Household Cavalry, and by detachments of troops from the Dominions and Colonies, and from twenty-eight regiments of Regulars and Territorials of which the King was Honorary Colonel, representing all branches of the British Army. This section of the procession was dosed by representative detachments of the Royal Marines and the Royal Navy. Officers of foreign navies, armies and air forces including naval, military and air attaches followed. Next came Chaplains of forces, followed by high officers of the Royal Air Force, and after them General Officers Commanding- in-Chief, Field Marshals, officers of headquarters stuff, and members of the Army Council Representatives of the Merchant Navy and the Royal Naval Reserve preceded Admirals of Fleet. Admirals, and Vice-Admirals, and following them were aides-de-camp to King George from these service- Earl Marshal the Duke of Norfolk headed the central section of the procession, which included great Officers of State, and Officers of the King's household. Close to the gun-carriage were six of King George's equerries. Behind the King's coffin the Royal Standard was borne, and after the Standard walked King Edward. Queen Mary, accompanied by the Queen of Norway, the Princess Royal, and the Duchess of York. travelled in a glass coach and followed the visiting Kings and Heads of foreign States. Behind, on foot, were Ambassadors. Ministers, and High Commissioners, seven other coaches carried other royal Indies, including Queen Victoria of Spain, the Duchess of Gloucester, and the Duchess of Kent. Suites of foreign royalties and members of foreign Governments were on foot behind them, followed the Third Division of the escort of Royal Horse Guards. The Fourth Division, preceded by detachments of police and the London fire brigade, closed the procession. Another great gathering of the nation's mourners awaiting the arrival of the funeral train at Windsor. and unseen multitudes throughout the British Empire and in many foreign countries, were able, IN MEMORIAM. His Majesty King George V. Born June 3rd. 1865. Died January 20th. 1936. He was the King: but not by law alone Held he the sceptre, played his kingly part: He, to whom duty was his very throne, Reigned in his people’s heart. T.S.B. through a broadcast account of it, to follow the procession on its way from Windsor Station through the Castle grounds to St. George’s Chapel. The air in its vicinity was drenched in the perfume of flowers which had been sent from sorrowing subjects and foreign rulers and peoples, and which were laid all-round the inner and outer walls of the cloisters. When the cortège arrived at the west door, listeners heard the shrill notes of the boson’s pipes, which, in accordance with naval ceremonial appropriate to the funeral of an admiral, had piped the coffin aboard the gun-carriage at the station, and now piped it in alongside the Chapel entrance. A lament by pipers followed as the body of the late King, headed by Kings-at-Arms with pursuivants and heralds in their picturesque uniforms in attendance was received by the clergy. headed by the Archbishops of Canterbury and York. Immediately behind was King Edward with Queen Man and other members of the royal family. Princess Elizabeth joined the procession inside the Chapel, where she had been awaiting its arrival. The service in the Chapel was broadcast, and reports already received indicate that it was clearly beard in distant parts of the Empire, in many of which it was re-broadcast. As the committal words were spoken by the Archbishop of Canterbury and the coffin sank below the Chapel floor, the sound could be heard of the earth brought from the royal burial ground at Frogmore being sprinkled upon it by King Edward. Not until after four o'clock this morning did the procession of those who for four days came from all over the country to pay tributes of sorrow before the coffin of their dead King cease its steady, silent, and reverend progress through Westminster Hall past the Catafalque with its motionless and bowed sentinels. The depth to which the feelings of the public have been moved by the passing of King George was demonstrated in this pilgrimage of crowds, which behaved throughout with orderliness and decorum, and endured long hours of wailing. The official estimate of numbers of those who saw the lying-in-state is over 809,000. In the press of crowds along the funeral route many persons fainted, and several were injured. Five thousand doctors, first-aid men and nurses were posted along the route, and there were forty-three casualty stations at specially selected points. Altogether over seven thousand people were treated. About 150 were taken to hospital by ambulance. The two minutes' silence, in which millions of his subjects who could not participate in to-day's ceremonies in London and at Windsor were able to pay their last tribute to the Monarch whom they respected and loved, was observed throughout the United Kingdom at 1.30 p.m. It had been intended that the silence should coincide with the end of the funeral service at St. George’s Chapel, but the slow progress of the funeral procession to Paddington Station took longer than had been expected, and the funeral train moved off over half-an-hour late It happened that while the Empire observed the silence the coffin was still on its way from Windsor Station to the Castle. The King and Queen Mollier and other members of the royal family, together with foreign royalties and distinguished visitors, returned to London after the funeral service at Windsor. The King and Queen Marv then drove to Buckingham Palace. A BELOVED MONARCH. A great man and a great monarch has passed. Not the British Empire alone, but the whole world mourns, for no individual of the age won such universal affection and admiration as His Most Excellent Majesty George the Fifth, by the Grace of God of Great Britain, Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India—and ever the devoted servant of his people. Through years of upheaval, when monarchies tottered and fell, when the few surviving occupants of thrones became for the most part powerless figureheads. King George remained every inch a king. He consecrated his whole life to maintaining the dignity of the British Crown and wining the loyalty of his people. The measure of his success in gaining the affection of his subjects was apparent on the occasion of the Jubilee and again in tie intensity of the anxiety with which the course of his last illness was followed. He was something more than a ruler, something very much more. Tie was the head of a great family—kindly, thoughtful. ever mindful of the welfare of the humblest member of that family. He gave himself, utterly and unceasingly, to the Empire of which he was the living and ever-active head. By devotion he inspired devotion and the love of his people, given in such full measure, was the only reward that he sought. The simplicity of his messages to his subjects at Christmas, during the Jubilee celebrations and on other occasions depicts the man more faithfully than any words that will be written about him. To those who were present at the Thanksgiving Service in St. Paul's Cathedral in May last the pomp and ceremony of a State occasion left only a secondary impression. With the passing of years, the spectacle, magnificent though it was. will become a dim memory. Hut the obvious delight of His Majesty the King at the demonstrations of affection, his very human reactions to the overwhelming evidence of deep love for the monarch as well as for the. monarchy, are unforgettable. All the brilliance and all the grandeur were overshadowed by an air of intimacy which could have had no basis but genuine affection on both sides. We have. then, superabundant evidence of the low of the people for their king. What of King George's achievements as a ruler? We do not need to wait upon history for the answer. Fourteen British kings and queens and 44 English kings and queens preceded him. Many were great, but none was greater than he. Pause before condemning that statement as extravagant. Contemplate the shattering events of the past quarter of a century; see how little of the old order has survived. Yet through all the upheavals the British throne has remained firm and the solidarity of the Empire remains unimpaired. For that the credit does not go to any particular government. It cannot lie attributed alone to "the innate common sense of the British people." That, common sense needed guiding: the sacrifices that have been made so freely needed the encouragement of example. Guidance and example came in the fullest possible measure from the throne. King George never became theatrical, he never attitudinised. On the either hand, he never allowed himself to become a puppet. As the head of a democratic State he ruled to the full extent, and no more, of the powers that were his under the Constitution. In many respects the executive responsibility of a British king is slight. It is in guidance and example that the real power lies. In his relations with his Ministers, and in the example which he set by his high sense of duty and his unremitting labours for the good of the Empire. King George ruled more completely than does many a dictator. Mercifully death did not come until the success of his labours was established beyond doubt. He was spared to triumph. In the darkest days of the War, and again in the crisis of 1925 and 1931. the person of the King was the rallying point of the nation's tenacity. His courage was the people's inspiration. He led us through the shadows back to the brightness of hope. And there he leaves us, a noble task nobly done. We of all the nations can face the future with the greatest measure of confidence because we have been blessed with a ruler of great courage, great ability, great devotion to his heritage and a wholly exceptional capacity for winning loyalty and devotion- truly a king among kings. —Straits Times Jan. 21. Local and Personal. JANUARY. Her Highness the Ranee left Kuching by the Vyner Brooke on January 4th. With Her Highness were Dr. W. Hutchison, who accompanied Her Highness on the flight home, and Dayang Valerie, who saw the Ranee off and then stayed on in Singapore for some days, first as the guest of His Excellency the British Agent and Lady Thomas. and later as the guest of Air Commodore and Mrs. S. W. Smith. Her Highness the Ranee and Dr. W. Hutchison left Seletar by an Imperial Airways plane on January 9th, and reached England safely on the 17th. Dayang Valerie returned to Kuching on January 20th. The Silver Wedding of Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee, which falls on February 24th. was observed on January 3rd owing to Her Highness the Ranee's impending departure for Europe. Their Highnesses gave a dinner party at Astana to about thirty guests. His Highness the Rajah paid two visits to Sibu Laut during the month, taking a small party with him on each occasion. The return journey after His Highness’ second visit was accomplished in almost exactly three hours, which must be very nearly a record time for the trip; this was due to the fact that Loba Kara has now been cleared and can take launches of the size of m.l. Betty, thereby eliminating the Santubong section of the former route. We hear, incidentally, that a road linking up the present. Lundu road with Tanjong Umbang may shortly be constructed. Tanjong Umbang is only about one hour by launch from Sibu Laut, so the projected road should bring this delightful seaside resort within easy reach of Kuching. An R.A.F. flying-boat from the Air base at Seletar arrived at Pending on January 20th. She proceeded on the 22nd to Sibu and Bintulu, and returned to Singapore on the 25th. The machine was piloted by Squadron Leader Lloyd and Flying Officer Michell, and carried as passengers Wing Commander C. W. George, Wing Commander the Rev. J. A. Jagoe, and Mr. Franks. No. 205 (flying-boat) squadron, which was due to call at Kuching on February 14th during the course of an official flight to China and Japan, is now expected to arrive at Pending on February 10th. The squadron will leave for Kudat on the following day. A party of officers and men from H.M.S. Lowestoft, which was at Rejang from December 29th until January 4th, saw the New Year in at Sibu. We understand that the Island Club lived up to its reputation on this occasion, and that the visitors departed with a good impression of Sibu hospitality. Mr. T. J. H. Speedy, Surveyor General of British North Borneo, broke his journey Northward on his return from furlough in order to spend a few days in Kuching, where he was the guest of Mr. W. Harnack. We deeply regret to record the death, which occurred at the General Hospital, Singapore, on January 15th. of Dr. G. E. Brooke. Dr. Brooke, who was for many years Chief Health Officer Singapore, came to Sarawak to reorganize the Health Department in 1928 and retired in 1931. During his stay in Kuching he was responsible for the lay-out of the public gardens in the Museum grounds, a task in which he was eminently successful; the gardens are now one of the chief amenities of the town, and will remain a fitting memorial to him. Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division, paid a visit to Kuching during January, arriving on January 18th and leaving on the A very successful Regatta was held at Kuching on New Year’s Day under the auspices of the Secretary for Native Affairs, the Datus and some of the leading Malays and Chinese. The full programme and results will be found under First Division News. Mr. and Mrs. A. L. McLaine returned from Singapore by s.s. Darvel on January 6th, and left for Sibu the same afternoon. Mr. and Mrs. L. D. Kennedy returned by the Vyner Brooke on January 20th. Kudang. a Dayak outlaw and murderer, was killed by levies on January 8th. His head was brought to Song Fort, and the Government reward of $500 has been paid to those responsible. Two other "wanted” Dayaks. Makau and Serai, were captured a few days later by police detachments under Mr. A. Macpherson and Native Officer Wan Bujang. Both men are believed to have been concerned in the Pelagus affair which took place in August. 1934. and in which a Malay and a Kayan were killed by a Dayak raiding party. Makau and Serai are at present awaiting trial Mr. K. H. Digby. Passed Cadet, has been transferred to Bau. where he is attached to the District Office for special duty in connection with mining. Mr. Digby recently completed a census of the Simanggang Road area. The results of this census were rather remarkable, since it was found that nearly 3,000 people are living in the one-mile reserves between the 10th mile and Serian. and that, in this same reserve there are some , 7,300 acres of land not merely alienated, but actually under cultivation. It should be borne in mind, also, that the reserve is by no means the whole area served by the road. These figures are significant when it is realized that the road, which has always been far from perfect, has only been open during the worst years of the depression, and that ever since it has been open immigration has been rigorously restricted. Visitors to Kuching during January included Messrs. G. A. Farrelly and R. E. Le Sueur from Sibu, and Mr. G. Kidd. Manager of Tanah Estates. Ltd., from Kanowit. Mr. C. D. Le Gres Clark returned from: furlough by the Vyner Brooke on January 20th. Mr. Le Gros Clark has been appointed Secretary for Internal Affairs, and has been promoted to Class IB of the Civil Service. Mr. J. R. Outram, Passed Cadet, has been transferred from Bau to Limbang. Dr. Brooke. So Dr. Gilbert Brooke has pissed on—a true Malayan, if ever there was one, a lover of this country in its many aspects and one of the few Europeans who have sunk roots deep enough to enable them to retire here. In Dr. Brooke’s case, there was also the presence of various members of his family to keep him in Malaya, but that was by no means the whole story. He had too many local interests to enable him to settle down happily anywhere else. I have never known anyone who was so calm, so gentle one might almost say, and yet so efficient. His office in Singapore, when he was reorganising quarantine, work in the port and extending antimalarial protection on the island and doing half a dozen other things besides, always seemed to be running like a well-oiled machine. Dr. Brooke and Dr. Scharff made an admirable team in those days. Even one who, like myself, had met Dr. Brooke only casually and occasionally must feel sorrow at his passing. One always felt that in him there was a living example of how to live in Malaya, how to put back into the. country something in return for what one got out of it. And he had the rare and enviable gift of getting the best out of an Asiatic staff by inspiral ion rather than coercion. —“ANAK SINGAPURA' in the Straits Times. Racecourse Development Fund. LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. KUCHING. 1TH DECEMBER, 1935. The. Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR, I enclose herewith further lists showing actual collections towards the Racecourse Development Fund, and shall be obliged if you will publish same in the next issue of the Sarawak Gazette. I am, Sir, Your obedient servant. R. L. DAUBEY, Acting Resident, First Division (Note. The Permissible Exportable Amount has been fixed at (50% of the Basic Quota for the first quarter, and, subject to alteration at the discretion of the International Rubber Regulation Committee. at 60% of the Basic Quota for the second quarter.) H. M. CALVERT, Chairman, Rubber Restriction Committee, Sarawak. The Passing of Simunjan. TRANSFER OF HEADQUARTERS OF THE SADONG DISTRICT. With the Government Government opening on January 1st of the new offices at Serian, one of the oldest stations in the country ceases to be a district headquarters. Ever since the first Rajah took over the Sadong river Simunjan has been the headquarters of the Sadong district, and has indeed been closely identified with the district itself owing to being generally known (though quite wrongly) as "Sadong." The natives invariably refer to the station now known as "Sadong" by its old and correct name Simunjan; the actual Sadong river is an insignificant little stream far up-country which flows into the left-hand branch of the main river near the Dutch border. In this connection, it is interesting tn see in an old map of Sarawak that both Sadong and Simunjan are marked approximately in their correct positions, —the former far in the ulu near Tebekang, and the latter at the mouth of the Simunjan river. In view of this, it is difficult to see how the mistake regarding the name arose. The early history of Simunjan was sufficiently lurid. In September, 1839, James Brooke called at the mouth of what is now known as the Sadong river on his way back to Singapore after his first visit to Sarawak Proper, and made the acquaintance there of the famous Sherip Sahap, a half-bred. Arab who ruled—or rather, misruled—the district. He returned again in December, 1840, and went up to the Simunjan lakes on an expedition in search of orang-utan. He described Simunjan as “a pretty little village where the Datu furnished us with a capital house''; on the first night of his visit the Rajah's boats were swamped by the bore, but after righting them he proceeded to the ulu and obtained a small orang-utan. Here also he met the Sebuyau and Balau Dayaks, who lived near the lakes. The inhabitants of Simunjan, though they lived under the rule of Sherip Sahap, a notorious pirate, were not themselves pirates, and the Sherip had to rely on the Skrang and Saribas Sea Dayaks, over whom he had a great influence, to commit his raids for him. As a result, the Sadong Malays and Dayaks were continually being attacked by Sherip Sahap’s hordes from the Saribas, and this caused many families to seek comparative safety in Sarawak Proper. In 1844, however, the Arab chieftain, having had due warning of what was coming to him, left Sadong and went to live in the Skrang, where later he was attacked and compelled to flee ignominiously into Dutch territory. Here he died soon afterwards, —of a broken heart, it is said, though whether such a blood-thirsty ruffian had a heart to break is doubtful. In 1849 a large force of Saribas pirates attacked Simunjan and killed over a hundred people. They were checked on their progress up-river at Gedong. which is some six hours' paddling above Simunjan; by means of a ruse, however, Gedong was captured, and the whole population slaughtered. Outrages of this sort were common under the appalling misrule of the Brunei pengirans, and wars and rumours of war were part of the ordinary life of the district. In 1853, however, all this was changed. Until this year Sadong had normally been under the control of Brunei and outside the sphere of James Brooke's administration, but the district was now ceded to the Rajah together with the Batang Lupar and Kalaka rivers, and the inhabitants began at last to enjoy the blessings of peace. But all the same, the bad old days were not quite over, since in 1860, when the plot to exterminate all Europeans in Sarawak and Dutch West Borneo was being hatched. Sherip Masahor used the Sadong district as his centre of operations. Charles Brooke, who at the time was Tuan Muda, got news of this, and immediately went to Sitnunjan. On his way there he met the famous Sherip and forbade him to enter the Sadong river, but when he reached Simnnjan he learned that his orders had been disobeyed. He left at once in his gunboat the Jolly Bachelor and attacked the Sherip and his war boats at Sebangan. completely routing them. Thc Sherip himself escaped in a small boat to Mukah. his life having been spared by the Tuan Muda, it is alleged, because his person was too sacred in the eyes of Muslims to be harmed. The Tuan Muda returned to Simunjan in triumph to find that during his absence the Bandar Kassim laid incited the Malays to attack the fort. This, however, they had refused to do, and when the Tuan Muda reached the Malay town of Gedong, the Malays all acknowledged him as their ruler. The Bandar Kassin was forced to flee the country, and all his goods were confiscated. Shortly after this last and final engagement, the inhabitants of Simunjan put behind them all thoughts of intrigue against the Rajah’s Government, and turned to the more peaceful occupation of coal-mining, and it is on account of its coal mine that Simunjan is chiefly known in Sarawak history. The mine was closed down in 1931. hut for over half a century it had provided employment for the people of Sadong and coal for the Government. The colliery was situated some three miles from Simunjan and comprised most of the western slope of Gunong Ngili. a bill some 900 feet high to those who are acquainted with the neighbourhood, it may be of interest to learn that forty years ago vessels between 400 and GOO tons used to steam up the Sungei Simnnjan Dania mid berth alongside the colliery wharf. Nowadays Chinese motorschooners of only 20 tons’ rest mournfully on the mud awaiting cargoes a few yards from the former kuala, and at low tide the river is completely dry. This change began during the first decade of the present century and was largely brought about by an over-enthusiastic District Officer cutting through a tanjong between the Sungei Simunjan and the Batang Sadong. mainly with the object, it is believed, of shortening the journey to the snipegrounds. As a result, the present kuala is now more than half a mile up-river. The last train from the colliery to Simunjan ran over the track on April 20th, 1935, and brought remnants of scrap-iron from the mine for shipment to Singapore. Since the colliery was closed down Simunjan has naturally declined in importance, and now hands over the cares of the district to her offspring Serian whose importance has steadily increased with the construction of the Kuching- Simanggang road. Simunjan, though, has had an interesting life. After a turbulent and exciting youth, the station settled down as the headquarters of a quiet and contented district; with the opening of the colliery, lists showing exports of coal figured regularly in the monthly reports instead of tales of head-hunting, punitive expeditions and peace-makings. and the whole district enjoyed the advantages of peace and a settled Government. — E.H.E. Safety of Air Transport. PUBLIC OPINION THE ARBITER. Recent happenings in the air transport field have forced into bloom many vari-coloured opinions. That there have been accidents to aircraft no one will deny, and equally undeniable is the action of the antagonists in seizing on these incidents (for they are nothing more) to forecast dire things for air transport. Conversely the protagonists, spurred by blind enthusiasm, are wreaking equal mischief by overstating the case for aviation, by advancing extravagant claims that collapse under the weight of cold facts. Between these extremities lies the truth. From the dawn of transport when Man, more richly endowed than his fellow creatures in his ability to think and reason, enlisted invention to ease the burden of carriage, every forward move in the restless march has resulted from the unreasoning, reckless faith of a pioneer. The Neolithic man who laboriously fashioned the first sledge; the ancient Egyptian who employed rollers to move the collosal statues of his gods; the early Roman who extended the use of rollers and produced the first wheeled vehicle: the Montgolfier brothers, inventors of the balloon; George Stephenson, father of the modern railway ; Otto and De Dion who gave us the motor car: the Wright brothers, first in the field of mechanical flight. All these were pioneers, all were laughed at, scorned, ridiculed. Only their faith enabled them to carry their experiments to a successful conclusion, to forge yet another link in the transport chain. But it was not their faith that proved the strength and safety of the link. That was left for the public, for the masses who paused to jeer, stopped to wonder, and at length remained to try and to test. Public opinion always has been and always will be the arbiter of a transport system Public patronage is the life blood of any community service whether it be by sea or land or air. and any transport system that fails to demonstrate its utility and safety to the complete satisfaction of the public must perish from lack of nourishment. Sixteen years ago commercial air transport was born. In 1920 commercial aeroplanes flew a distance of 1,022,000 miles. Airliners engaged on regular services throughout the world in 1934 covered a distance of 103,432,000 miles. Those figures represent the measure of public approval and confidence. Continual improvement in both machine and engine design, more ingenious aids to air navigation, closer attention to service and maintenance and to the technique of piloting have all played their part in providing greater dependability. It is to these factors than an official of Qantas Empire Airways referred in citing the splendid record attained during 12 months operation of the 4,361-mile Brisbane-Singapore air service, and in compiling the noteworthy aggregate of 480,000 miles of flight without a single forced landing. This Australian service is being maintained with D.H.86 four-engined aircraft, and Qantas place complete confidence in this type after exhaustive tests under actual working conditions. No transport organization, whether it operates on land, on sea, or in the air. has ever been able entirely to eliminate accidents. Sceptics and enthusiasts alike would do well to remember that life is beset hv dangers and that the perils of man’s span range from whooping cough in infancy to falling down stairs in old age.—Commercial Aviation News.) Two kinds of Nuisances. The articles entitled "Is Gendang Tanda An Entertainment?," published in the December, 1935, and January, 1936. issues, are very interesting. But it is a subject on which opinions differ rather too greatly, which makes it unpleasant to discuss. One section of the community may consider that gendang tanda is a form of entertainment from which a great deal of enjoyment can be derived, while another may deem it a nuisance on account of the monotonous din it creates, and of its unrestricted nature. Because I have not go far really enjoyed a gendang party—and I have attended quite a few —nor have I been really disturbed by one during the night, I am not going to commit myself by giving an opinion. It will be sufficient to say that it is largely a question of taste, although 1 agree that a time limit would improve matters. However, this is really not the subject about which I wish to write. 1 think many readers living in Kuching will agree with me that we are being pestered by a rial nuisance the beggars. There are some who think that by giving alms to these beggars they will be doing good in this world, so that when the day of reckoning comes round, they will have something to their credit to show. This is all very good and noble, but one should also bear in mind that there are beggars and beggars. For instance, would anyone conscientiously describe a man a beggar who is physically well-built, hefty, and able to do a job of work? No, certainly not. Yet many of the socalled ’beggars' are persons of this class, and they thrive on just because they find it so easy to earn' a living by the simple process of bandaging parts of their legs with dirty rags, by putting a coating of dust on their faces, by limping a little in spite of the stout sticks they carry, and by begging from house to house; and just because some people arc so easily deceived by their outward appearance. I have no doubt that the people who give them aims really mean to be kind, but misplaced kindness of this nature is likely to do more harm than good. It encourages the 'beggars.' In other words, it makes more 'beggars.' A friend of mine recently told me that one of these 'beggars' went to sen mine acquaintances who were employed in his garden. In the course of their conversation, the 'beggar’ was heard to remark that they were all were foolish to work so hard for a living, whereas he had only to disguise himself a little and beg. Of course my friend helped him along by giving him the order of the boot. Such 'beggars' are invariably driven away by me, too, and if more people were to take the same action under these circumstances, our lives would be more worth living, since we would no longer be continuously harassed by the cries of "Towkay, tolonq ; towkay, tolonq." There is, however, another kind of beggars, for whom we cannot help having some genuine compassion. These are the old and/or decrepit men, who have no one upon whom they can rely for support, and who have not the necessary strength to work. Such poor fellow-creatures. unlike those described in my preceding paragraph who cannot even assume a correct pleading tone, are really to be pitied; if anyone can see his way to do a little charitable work here, I am sure that his energy and goodwill will not be wasted.—C.S.S. Conservancy of Inland Fisheries. PROHIBITION OF TUBA FISHING. On July 1st, 1936, tuba fishing will become a thing of the past in Sarawak, for on that date an order will come into operation which states that "No person shall put in any running stream, navigable river or estuary any tuba root, explosive or any substance which has the effect of stupefying, stunning or poisoning fish.” That such an order was badly needed is proved by the fact that the ulus of many rivers have been almost entirely denuded of fish as the result of ruinous use of tuba on the part of Dayaks and other natives. The natives themselves are by no means blind to the stupidity of this policy of wholesale and wanton destruction, but as things stand at present they are unable to stop it. It is the usual case of "devil take the hindermost;" the inhabitants of each village use the argument that if they do not tuba all the neighbouring streams, somebody else will, and so the merry game goes on. Groups of two or three long-houses combine to tuba certain reaches of rivers at frequent intervals, and often enough they have to hurry to avoid clashing with rival groups. The disastrous results of this senseless competition are only too apparent, and in many cases the natives have stated that they would definitely favour any action which would put an end to the evils of the present system. Owing to the impossibility of their reaching any agreement among themselves, however, there was no hope of them exercising any control on their own initiative, so Government intervention became inevitable. Various ways and means of instituting some sort of effective control were discussed, but after full consideration it was decided that nothing but complete prohibition would meet the case. Six months will elapse, however, before this prohibition comes into force, and during this period Administrative Officers have been asked to give the widest possible publicity to the matter, and to take steps to ensure that the people concerned understand the objects of prohibition Although there will naturally be some complaints at first , at any rate from Dayaks, it is probable that the grumblers will soon be silenced by results. A year or two ago tuba fishing was prohibited throughout the ulu Ai by a local order. This measure was hailed with a sigh of relief by many of the Dayaks themselves, and the experiment proved completely successful, since the stocking of the rivers responded al once, and after few months fish became plentiful; instead of obtaining meagre cat claw every few weeks, the Dayaks only had to go out with a jala for half-of-an-hour or so to catch enough fish to feed their families. It will be interesting to see whether the general prohibition of tuba fishing will produce the same results elsewhere in the country, though there is little doubt that this will be the case. It is hoped, also, that once the natives realise the eventual benefits that will result from prohibition, they will give it their support and co-operation as they did in the ulu Ai. Certainly they should in time be grateful for a measure designed to assist the conservation and rational exploitation of a potentially valuable food supply. Films of the Month. When Reuben Mamoulian puts his "chop" on a film, one can usually be sure that it will be worth watching. This was certainly the case with We Live Again, a screen version of Tolstoy's celebrated novel ''Resurrection." This was an outstanding film, and one which justifies the use of almost every superlative in a critic's vocabulary. The photography, the acting, the settings and the production were as nearly perfect as they could well be; and the atmosphere of pre-revolutionary Russia was captured with complete success. The story, though it possesses the grandeur of everything that came from Tolstoy's pen, is just a little too nineteenth century fur modern tastes, but it is undoubtedly impressive, and Mamoulian has an unerring flair for avoiding the pitfalls of false sentiment into which most other producers would have plunged headlong. For once, too, we were spared the conventional happy ending which would have spelt the artistic ruin of a fine film. Tolstoy's story, which was closely followed (again a refreshing change from most screen adaptations of novels', is too well-known to need recapitulation. Anna Sten gave a magnificent performance as Katusha Maslova, the peasant girl who is ruined by Prince Dmitri (Fredric March), and Aubrey Smith was perfect in the part of a Moscow High Court Judge. The acting throughout, indeed, was of an exceptionally high quality, and the players were all intelligently cast. Many of the scenes will live long in the memory, particularly the Easter live service, and the shots of peasants at work in the fields. The Court and prison scenes were also effective, and make one wonder why the revolution did not come many years before it did. A superb film, and one to see again. We Live Again was preceded by The. Grasshopper and the Ants, the best Silly Symphony that has yet me to Kuching. The grasshopper was one of the most delightful of all the fantastic creations of Walt Disney’s imagination, and the colouring, dialogue, and music were all equally striking. Disney is a genius of no mean order, and this symphony showed him at his best. In Clive of India, Ronald Colman showed once again what a splendid actor he is when he is given a part that soils him. If he failed slightly to portray the dour, tormented creature that was the real Clive, this was the fault of the play, which gave as a highly idealised version of the chain of events that added India to the Empire. The film, however, was an undoubted success. Loretta Young did very well as Margaret Maskelync. Clive's devoted wife, and Francis Dister was adequate as her brother. January was remarkable for two first-class British farces. The first. You Made Me Love You. showed Stanley Lupino in a splendid piece of fooling, and one after his own heart. Two of the scenes, namely his first entrance, and the serenade in the farmyard, were worthy of Rem' Claire at, his best, and the drive in the antiquated village taxi was a masterpiece of simple but effective clowning. We do not see enough of this polished comedian on the screen. Orders Is Orders was an excellent satire on the British military mind and the go-getting' methods of American film-producers. Cyril Maude was perfect as the Colonel, and James Gleason was pleasantly objectionable as Waggermeyer, the film magnate. A riotously funny film, and one which showed what British studios can do when they really try. Anna Neagle gave a splendid performance in the named part of Nell Gwyn. though sometimes her acting suffered from over-emphasis. Sir Cedric Hardwicke was perfectly cast as Charles II, and bore a most striking physical resemblance to the Merry Monarch. Some of the photography in this film was outstandingly good, and the costumes were both picturesque and true to I he period. First Division News. DECEMBER. Thirty-eight civil and sixty criminal cases came before the Kuching Courts during December. Of the latter, twenty-two were for breaches of Municipal By-laws. Two inquests were held in Kuching during the month. The first, on the body of an unknown Chinese who was found hanging from a tree in a rubber garden oil Sekama Road, resulted in a verdict of suicide during temporary insanity. At the second, on the body of a Chinese girl named Chok Nyin Tai, who had swallowed tuba poison, a verdict of suicide during temporary insanity was also recorded. Native Officer Abang Dan, on transfer from Lundu to Simunjan, reported his arrival in Kuching on December 23rd. The Assistant District Officer, Mr. G. F. J. Pegler proceeded to Lundu via Sibut Laut, Rambungan and Sampadi on the 17th, and returned to Kuching by the same route on December 24th. During the first week of December, a man, possibly a Lanun, was seen wandering along the coast off Tanjong Setimi in the vicinity of Telok Melanu. The mun was dumb, naked, and verging on collapse through starvation ; when brought to Lundu, it was found he was able to write, and by this means information was obtained that he and nine others bad sailed from Labuan, and when off Tanjong Datu had been wrecked. He was the sole, survivor The man has refused to indicate the name of his village in Labuan, the date of sailing from that port, or his destination. He is now under observation in the General Hospital. There is a possibility that he may be a fugitive from justice from Netherlands East Indies who has concocted the story of the wreck off Tanjong Datu, and is feigning dumbness to avoid being arrested. On December full a petition was submitted by the inhabitants of Kampong Quop begging Government to rescind immediately the licence granted to a Chinese to maintain a gambling farm in the village. This request was made on the grounds that the farm was the cause of much annoyance, discontent and worry to the villagers. The District Officer. Bau, reports that there has been no serious crime in the district during December. The general health of the Bau district during the month was good. A great deal of anti-malarial work is being carried out, and as a result the incidence of malaria in the mines has noticeably decreased. 364 cases were treated in the Ban hospital and dispensary during December, and 73 N.A.B. injections were given, chiefly for yaws. The Principal Medical Officer made his usual monthly inspection of the gold mines on December 11th and 12th. The Orang Kaya of Senah (left-hand branch) again reports that Dayaks from Dutch territory have been making trouble in his district and encroaching on the Senah farming-land. It is hoped to arrange a meeting with the Dutch authorities as soon as possible to settle this question. Dalian Rubber Estates, Ltd., harvested 24,500 lbs. of dry rubber during December. The rainfall at Ban was 10.63 inches, and at Dahan 13.80 inches. During the month the B.C.L structure at Pangkalan Buso was demolished, since it had been condemned as dangerous to shipping. Two bridges on the Buso Hoad were strengthened. The carpenters were further engaged in repairing and filling water-pipes in the bazaar, and in minor alterations around the District Officer's bungalow for anti-malarial purposes. At the beginning of the month head warder Sajan Singh arrived at Bau and took over the jail from head warder Dal Singh, who has retired from the service. The new Chinese School at Paku is now finished, but owing to the recent destruction of the bazaar by fire, the committee have found some difficulty in meeting the cost. In view of the fact, also, that several of the committee have been compelled to move out of the Paku district, a new committee has now been formed to set the school on a firm footing and to obtain a new and more efficient master. On December 11th the. Government Auditor. Mr. A. G. Taylor, arrived at Ban to carry out the annual audit. He returned to Kuching on the 16th. The total output of gold for Upper Sarawak during November showed a slight increase on that of October, and amounted to 2,296.285 ozs. The price of gold remains steady at about $59.25 per fine oz. Two Exclusive Prospecting Licences, one Panning Licence, and one General Prospecting Licence were issued during December. The individual output of gold from the various mines for the month of November was as follows :— Rugby. On the evening of December 30th a rugger match, the first for over two years, was played in Kuching. The teams chosen were originally nine strong, but as usual various defaulters dropped out for one reason or another, one miscreant actually bringing forward work as an excuse for not playing. Others had almost equally ingenious excuses. At one time it looked, thanks to a last-minute backslider, that the teams would even drop below the regulation seven-a-side, but Cargill, risking the recurrence of on old injury, sportingly turned out and one of our defaulters thought better of it and came along. The teams that eventually took the field were : Referee W. H. Kelley. To even the sides Lowe changed to the Whites at half-time. The "gate” was very gratifying; a distinguished gathering of spectators gave continual encouragement to the teams. The betting remained fairly steady, the promising look of the Colours backs being counterbalanced by the solid appearance of the “All Black” forward opposition. Although the majority of players were badly out of training the game was fast and the tackling remarkably keen. The touch-kicking was, on the whole, poor, but the players showed a pleasing tendency to run or kick-ahead rather than resort to touch-line methods. Mitchell kicked off for the Colours who were soon in their opponents half, and Taylor was up to take a return pass from Lowe and cross near the corner. Mitchell kicked a good goal. Give and take play followed, both sides being dangerous in turn, till, just on half-time. Mitchell, fielding a long kick on the touch-line, beat his man and ran unchallenged from the centre to score a good try. Half-time thus came with the Colours leading by 8—nil. To the second half the superiority of the Whites forwards was clearly marked and they continued to get the best of the scrums. Good tackling by the Colours backs, however, held the opposition in check. Whites had the best of this half territorially hut. Colours scored twice, thanks to two beak-aways by Selons, probably the fittest man on the field. On the first occasion he fastened on to a dropped pass in his own half of the field, and following up a series of lusty kicks, he was first up to touch down. On the second occasion taking a pass from one of his own side, he ran from just inside centre, hotly pursued by Tait, to score between the posts, Mitchell converting. Towards the end the Whites pressed hotly and had bad luck more than once. On one occasion a free kick by Kitto, just missing the comer, went into touch-in-goal, and later Kitto and Noakes rushing the ball to the line were very unlucky not to score, in fact, Colours were extremely lucky not to have a penalty try awarded against them. The end of ten extremely hot and thirsty minutes either way, came with Colours victorious by two goals, two tries, 16 points to nil. For the winners Cargill was very good, always doing clover things and Mitchell played a sound game. Selous, playing in the back division shewed his versatility and was always up with the ball, his two tries were well taken. For the Whites, Noakes and Kitto were best, the latter though the "father” of the two teams proved he could still show the youngsters a trick or two. All the Whites forwards followed up excellently. The losers were unlucky to have Whale, their captain, off the field for some time owing to an unfortunate injury. Finally a word of thanks must be given tn Kelley who shewed tact and discretion in the thankless post of referee. Thanks are also due to him for the use of the Police padang. The game, ten minutes either way, was played in gym shoes and no place kicking was allowed It was so much enjoyed by the spectators and so well survived by the two teams that it is a pity a game or two more could not be arranged. A little determination and a little effort to overcome the general sloth of the East is all that is required.—(Contributed.) Seventh Day Adventist Mission. ITEMS OF NEWS. The Sunny Hill School, located at the 3rd mile, Hock Road, gave a very successful programme and concert at the close of November. The concert was repeated on December 1, at which performance Her Highness the Ranee and Dayang Valerie were present. The concert throughout revealed unusual ability. A feature outstanding on the programme were numbers by the Land Dayak boys of the Ayer Manis Schoo) at the 37th mile. Simanggang Road. The English was unusually good, and the singing of Mrs. B. Fox and a quartette was a real treat for Kuching. The boys of the Sunny Hill School presented a splendid American-Indian Ghost Dance : the girls featured in a hoop dull. Credit for the success of the event must go to Mr. and Mrs. L. Fox, Mr. and Mrs. Tan Tsak Yu, and the faculty, all of whom spared no time, or energy to produce a concert outstanding among local schools. Responding to a call to become the Director of the Malav Stales Mission at Kuala Lumpur. Pastor V. E. Hendershot. M.A., left Kuching by the Vyner Brooke on December 14. During his short stav in Kuching Professor Hendershot has made a host of friends, whose good wishes follow him to his new post.—(Contributed.) The following contributions to the Welfare Work of the S.D.A. Mission in Sarawak were received at the end of 1935, for which grateful acknowledgment is herewith tendered : Persaudara'an Sehabat Pena, Malaya (Sarawak Branch). A large gathering assembled at the first Annual General Meeting of the above-named Association which was held at the residence of Incite Mohd. Zain bin Malek, at Jalan Patinggi Alli, on 5th January, 1936. Those present included the Datu Amar, Incite Abu Bakar (pensioner), Abg. Hj. Zaini. several other guests and members of the Association which, in all, numbered about eightypersons. After a group photograph had been taken, Incite Mohd. Zain made a short speech of welcome and thanked those who had kindly spared their time to be present at the gathering. He then asked Incite Mohd. Norwawi bin Haili, the Secretary of the Association, to come forward and proceed with the meeting. Inche Mohd. Norwawi, alter saying a few words thanking the guests on behalf of the Association, read a short resume written by Inche Mohd. Zain relating to the formation of the Association. lie continued at length, in classical Malay, and explained to the audience the object of the gathering taking the opportunity to express the meaning of the words Persaudara'an Sehabat Pena which was appreciated by all present. The Datu, in the course of his well-worded speech, expressed his delight at the success of the organisers in forming up the Association and kindly consented to be its President. Abg. Hj. Zaini also spoke on behalf of the guests thanking the members of the Association for their kind invitation. After the speech, the guests were regaled to a curry tiffin delightfully prepared by Nana A. K. Hussien. The S. C. Orchestra under the leadership of P.P.I. Awang Joini and Sergt.-Major Mohamed was in attendance and helped to enliven the occasion. The election of Office-bearers for the year 1936 resulted as follows :— President ... Abang Suleiman, Datu Amar Vice President. ... Mohd. Zain bin Malek Secretary ... Mohd. Norwawi bin Haili Asst. Secretary ... Hasbie bin A. Bakar Members of the Committee ... Saji bin Mat Nor ... Awg. Joini bin Awg. Meludin ... Taha bin Hj. Baki At the close of the proceedings three hearty cheers were given to the Datu Amar for having consented to take up the Presidency of the Association.—M.Z. Sarawak Lomba Perahu. Kuching, pada hari Arba'a 1 hari bulan January, 1936. DENGAN KEBENABAN SRI PADUKA DULl YANG MAHA MUI.1A TUAN RAJAH, G.C.M.G. Lomba yang pertama pukol 8 pagi. Perjalanan dari Muara Padungan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu balok tuboh 5 orang berkayoh. No. 1 mendapat $7.50. No. 2 $5. No. 3 $3. Lomba yang ke-dua pukol 8.30 pagi. Perjalanan dari gudang Ong Ewe Hai sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu pelomba tuboh-nya 15 orang berkayoh. No. 1 mendapat $20 bagi tuan perahu dan $15 anak-anak perahu. No. 2 $10 tuan perahu $10 anak-anak perahu dan No. 3 $5 tuan perahu $5 anakanak perahu. Lomba yang ke-tiga pukol 9 pagi. Perjalanan dari gudang Ong Ewe Hai sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu Tekura dan pengayoh-nya 25 orang. No. 1 mendapat $15 bagi tuan perahu dan $25 anak-anak perahu. No. 2 $10 bagi tuan perahu dan $10 anak-anak perahu. No. 3 $5 bagi tuan perahu dan $5 anak-anak perahu. Lomba yang ke-empat pukol 9.30 pagi. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Hadiah daripada Sri Paduka Duli Yang Maha Mulia Tuan Rajah. Bagi perahn pelumba bcsar pengayoh-nya 30 orang, sa’orang memegang benders dan sa'orang menimba. No. 1 mendapat $40 bagi tuan perahu dan $30 anak-auak perahu. No. 2 $20 bagi tuan perahu dan $20 anak-anak perahu. No. 3 $10 bagi tuan perahu dan $10 anak-anak perahu.  Lomba yang ke-lima pukol 10 pagi. Perjalanan dari Mnara Sinjan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu balok khas bagi budak-budak tinggi 4 1/2 kaki luboh-nya 10 orang memegang pengayoh aahaja. No. 1 mendapat $10. No. 2 $7.50. No. 3 $5. Lomba yang ke-enam pukol 10.30 pagi. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Lomba kasehan bagi perahu yang tiada mendapat menang dalam perlomba'an yang ke-dua-perahu 15. No. 1 di-kurangkan 3 orang. No. 2, 2 orang. No. 3. 1 orang. No. 1 mendapat $25. No. 2 $15. No. 3 $10. Lomba yang ke-tujoh pukol 11 pagi. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Lomba kasehan bagi perahu tekura. No 1 mendapat $10 bagi tuan perahu $20 anak-anak perahu. No. 2 $5 tuan perahu $10 anak-anak perahu. No. 3 $5 tuan perahn $5 anak-anak perahu. Lomba yang ke-delapan pukol 11.30 pagi. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Lomba kasehan bagi perahu pelumba besar yang tiada mendapat rncnang dalam perlomba'an yang ke-empat. Perahu No. 1 di-kuraug-kan 3 orang. No. 2, 2 orang. No. 3, 1 orang. No. 1 mendapat $30 bagi tuan perahu $30 anak-anak perahu. No. 2 $15 tuan perahu $15 anak-anak perahu. No. 3 $10 tuan perahu $10 anak-anak perahu. Kcmudiun daripada itu berhenti, maka ui-mula'i berlomba lacji pukcl 2 petang. Lomba yang ke-sembilan pukol 2 petang. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu bandong perantau dan pengayoh-nya 10 orang. No. 1 mendapat *20. No. 2 $15. No. 3 $10. Lomba yang ke-seb-las pukol 3 petang. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Lomba kasehan bagi perahu bandong perantau dan pengayoh-nva 10 orang. No. 1 mendapat $15. No. 2 $10. No. 3 $7.50. Lomba yang ke-dua-belas pukol 3.30 petang. Perjalanan dari Tanjong Patingan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu tuboh-nya 3 orang berkayoh pelamha 15. No. 1 mendapat $10. No. 2 $7.50. No. 3 $5. Lomba yang ke-tlga-belas pukol 4 petang. Perjalanan dari pengkalan Mesjid Besar sampai Pengkahu Batu. Bagi bandong ikan dayong berdiri tuboh-nya 1 orang. No. 1 mendapat $3. No. 2 $2. No. 3 $1. Lomba yang ke-empat-belas pukol 4.30 petang. Perjalanan dari Muara Sinjan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bagi perahu kajang sekerat tuboh-nya 4 orang—2 orang berdayong 1 orang kemudi dan 1 orang dudok di-tengah. No. 1 mendapat $6. No. 2 $4. No. 3 $2. Lomba yang ke-lima-belas pukol 5 petang. Perjalanan dari Muara Sinjan sampai Pengkalan Batu. Bngi perahu badong perantau tuboh nya 5 orang. 4 orang berdayong 1 orang kemudi pakai pengayoh. No. 1 mendapat $7.50. No. 2 $5. No. 3 $3. Sarawak Turf Club. PROVISIONAL PROGRAMME FOR THE SPRING MEETING, 1936. FIRST DAV, SATURDAY, 2ND MAY, 1936. RACE NO. 1 [2.30 p.m. THE TUAN MUDA’S CUP. Value $250. A piece of plate of the value of $100 presented by His Highness the Tuan Muda with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 2 [3.0 p.m. THE GOLD MINERS' PURSE. Value $250. $100 presented by the Gold Mining Community, Upper Sarawak with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 3 [3.30 p.m. THE SLUMP STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 4 [4.0 p.m. THE B.C.L. STAKES. Value $250. $50 presented by The Borneo Company Limited, with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE No. 5 [4.30 p.m. THE MATANG STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100 Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10 RACE NO. 6 [5.0 p.m. THE PENDING STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 7 [5.80 p.m. THE RANEE'S CUP. Value $250. A piece of plate of the value of $100 presented by Her Highness the Ranee with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for ponies of any Division. Distance 1 mile. Entrance fee $10. Post entries allowed at $20 but no refund. $5 refunded to non-acceptors. Handicap published on the Course. SECOND DAY, MONDAY, 4TH MAY, 1936. RACE NO. 1 [2.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STEAMSHIP CD'S STAKES. Value $250. $100 presented by The Sarawak Steamship Company, Limited, with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 2 [3,0 p.m. THE SIME DARBY STAKES Value $250. $50 presented by Messrs. Sime Darby & Co., Ltd., with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 3 [3.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division HI ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 4 [4.0 p.m. THE JUBILEE STAKES Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 5 [4.30 p.m. THE STATES SPRINT. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 8 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 6 [5.0 p.m. THE TURF CLUB STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. . RACE NO. 7 [5.30 p.m. THE RAJAH'S CUP. Value $300. A piece of plate value $150 presented by His Highness the Rajah with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for ponies of any Division. Distance round the course (about 1 1/3 miles). Entrance Fee $10. $5 refunded to non-acceptors. Handicap published on the Course. Post Entries allowed at $20 but no refund. REGULATIONS. Entries.—All nominations, accompanied by entrance fees, description of ponies and declaration of colours, are to be made to the Secretaries not later than 4th April. 1936, at noon. Scratchings.—Owners scratching ponies before 5 p.m. on 1st May, 1936, for First Day and 5 p.m on 3rd May, 1936, for Second Day, will receive back half their entrance fees. Handicaps.—For First Day will be posted on the Notice Board at the Sarawak Club at noon on 18th April, 1936, and for the Second Day at noon on 3rd May, 1936. The maximum weight shall he 11 stone 7 lbs. and the minimum 7 stone. Course.—Will be open for training on 21st March. 1936, at 5.30 a.m. Penalties.—Winners of any race at a meeting after publication of weights shall carry a penalty of 7 lbs. for each race with a maximum of 11 stone 7 lbs. Prizes.—20% reduction if under 5 entries. No second prize will he awarded if there are less than 3 runners and no third prize if less than 5. Jockeys.—Professional jockeys who are Sarawak subjects and have not ridden more than t wo winners under Sarawak Turf Club Rules, may claim an allowance of 7 lbs. The maximum fee to a winning Jockey shall be $15 in the absence of any agreement to ride for a lower sum. Whip.—-No whip used in any race shall exceed two feet in length. Spurs.—If spurs be worn these shall not have rowels. Ponies.—Must run on the First Day to be eligible for entry in races on Second Day. Any Borneo pony of not more than 14 hands in height may he imported from B.N.B. and shall be eligible for entry in races open to Sarawak Ponies provided that their sires and dams were foaled in Borneo. All new ponies shall carry top weight on the First Day in the Division in which they are classified, which shall be as follows :— Division I over 13.2 hands to 14 hands. II ,, 13.0 „ .. 13.2 ., Ill under 13 Totalizator. Cash Sweep & Selling Lotteries.— As usual. Visiting Members.—A visiting member shall pay a subscript ion of $5 per week or portion of a week during which he shall be a member of the Club. A nomination of such gentleman to be a Visiting Member shall be signed by two Ordinary Members as respectively proposing and seconding him. Strangers.—Persons not members of the Club or strangers not introduced by a Member, may be admitted within the enclosure of the Grand Stand or of the Paddock during any Meeting on payment of an entrance fee of $5 for each day’s racing. Owners.—Are requested to see that their syces and jockeys obtain necessary badges for entrance to Paddock. Objections. By owners shall be accompanied by a deposit of $10. Where not otherwise especially mentioned the Rules of the Race Course shall be the same as those adopted by the Straits Racing Association. The decision of the Committee of the Sarawak Turf Club shall be final in all matters of dispute. Communications to be made to THE BORNEO COMPANY LIMITED, Secretaries, Sarawak Turf Club. CLASSIFICATION FOR SPRING MEETING. 1936 Members must have at least 60 rolls and 6 monthly averages in order to qualify for competition for this annual tankard. Tennis. MIXED DOVBLBS CIUMI'IUKSHU’. First Round.—Mrs. Daubeny and Summers beat Mrs. Calvert and Lowe 6-4, 2-6, 7-5, Mrs. Pitt- Hardacre and Mikheil a bye. Dayang Valerie and Benson beat Mrs. Philp and Corbin 6-0, 6-2. Mrs. Kelly and Kitto a bye. Semi-final.—Mrs. Pitt-Hardacre and Mitchell beat Mrs. Daubeny and Summers 8-6, 6-2, 6-4. Mrs. Kelly and Kitto to play Dayang Valerie and Benson. The match Mrs. Pitt-Hardacre and Mitchell vs. Mrs. Daubeny and Summers was very interesting and closely contested, the result being in doubt up to the last moment. Both women drove consistently hard across-court and the men scored many points with neatly angled volleys. MEN'S HANDICAP SINGLES. Additional results: Semi-final.—Kitto-30 beat Benson-15, 6-4,6-8,6-2. Final.—Kitto - 30 beat Cargill scr. 7-5, 4-6, 6-3. The match Benson vs. Kitto was notable for a great recovery by Benson in the second set, when, with one set down and trailing 2-5 he put on a spurt and took the set at 8-6. However, he could not reproduce this form in the third set when he was beaten by his opponent's superior placements. In the final Cargill was rather unlucky in the first set as he was leading 5-4 and had set point, but he faltered and allowed Kitto just to win the set at 7-5. Cargill can play a fast low shot from his backhand court to his opponent’s forehand court along the side-line; this is about the most difficult shot in tennis, and one he should practise as it is a sure match-winner.—(Contributed.) Badminton. The following is the draw for the Mixed Doubles Tournament:— Mrs. Harding and G. Chater play Mrs. Allan and Kitto. Mrs. Kelly and Harding play Mrs. Daubeny and W. J. Chater. Mrs. Pollard and Birt play Dayang Valerie and Daubeny. Mrs. Gibson and Calvert a bye. Second Division News. DECEMBER. Two hundred and six out-patients were treated at Simanggang Government Dispensary during December, and one hundred and forty N.A.B. injections were performed. All Penghulus and Orang Kaya visited Simanggang during the month and were present at a preliminary aum with various tuai, held by Mr. Arundell. The object of the aum was to codify the different Dayak adats of the Second Division; the final aum is to be held next month when His Highness the Rajah visits Simanggang. Several cases of theft were reported in the Saribas district during December. One Dayak woman visitor from Singapore complained that $80 had been stolen from her person; the circumstances appeared peculiar, but the police were unable to discover any clue. One hundred and twenty-six out-patients were treated at Betong Dispensary during December, and forty eight X A.B injections were administered. Abang Draup, Senior Native Officer, Betong, visited the Ulu Layar and Spak to make further enquiries into the rice shortage. On his return he reported that the situation was very serious and estimated that six hundred sacks of rice would be required. It was considered, however, that this estimate was excessive, and arrangements were made to obtain a hundred sacks of rice at $6.50 per sack. It was proposed to issue this rice on credit, but at the. end of the month information was received that rebels had been harboured in the Ulu Spak, and the issue of rice has been postponed, pending a full investigation in the Ulu. The sale of cartridges was completely stopped at the end of the month. Reports on this year's padi in the Saribas district continue to be satisfactory. On Christmas Day, Stambak Ulu, the winners of the Saribas Dayak Football Cup, met an XI composed of Betong Government servants. After a hard tussle Government won by one goal, the final score being 1—0. Visitors to Betong during the month included the Ven. Archdeacon F. S. Hollis and the Rev. Father O. Philipps. The Acting District Officer, Kalaka, visited the Awek and Krian during the month, accompanied by Pengarah Nyalu, and reports that prospects for the padi harvest appear good ; the padi looks healthy, but many complaints were received about the ravages of mice. Towards the end of the month there was considerable activity in Saratok bazaar, the construction of many new shop-houses being started. The Native Officer. Engkilili, states that dealers are storing their pepper in the hope of obtaining better prices later on. Prisoner Chai Lan, who escaped from Engkilili jail on October 31st. 1934. was re-captured on the Simanggang Road by Mr. E. H. Elam, and sent back to Engkilili under escort. It is understood that this man’s re-capture was due to a chance encounter, and to the fact that he was recognized by Mr. Elam, who was in charge of Engkilili when lie escaped. Fifty levies under the leadership of Penglmlus Briak. Sirai, and Bedembap arrived at Lubok Antu from Katibas via Nanga Mujang on December 18th. returning on 23rd. They were accompanied by Penghulu Ramba and Rantai. Third Division News. DECEMBER Twenty-six civil and fifty-four criminal cases came before the Sibu Courts during December. On December 14th a report was received from Kanowit that two wayang actresses had committed suicide by jumping into the river, opposite the Fort, from a vessel conveying them and other members of their troupe back to Sibu. The Assistant District Officer accompanied by Inspector Abang Adeng proceeded to Kanowit to hold an inquiry. A verdict of suicide while of unsound mind was returned. Both bodies were eventually recovered and identified. Mr. A. Macpherson. Travelling District Officer, left for the Kanowit district on the 5th. returning to Sibu on the 21st accompanied by Native Officer Wan Bujang and several Dayak tuai from the I'm and Ngemah. Land revenue amounted to $9,698.83 for the Sibu district only, as compared with $8,584.29 for the previous month. The Acting Superintendent of Lauds and Surveys. Mr. W. Harnack, visited Sibu from 10th to 12th December. The following figures give the Sibu and Kanowit trade figures for the mouth : Hobber exports from the Division for the month were as follows :— Repairs were effected to the wireless station at Kanowit during the month, the carpenter and coolies with timber and materials being transported thence in the motor-lighter Big Bill. The District Officer, Sibu, reports that Forest Ranger Pendek returned on the 7th from further exploration and demarcation of the Pelagus Protected Forest. The Dayaks living at Nanga Iran were interviewed and the change of boundary explained by the Penghulu and the Forest Hanger. They asked for both banks of the Sungci Latong below Nanga Rusa and these have been excluded from the reserve and a revised proclamation for the area has been posted. Forest Ranger Pendek and a small party are leaving for Pelagus early in the New Year to explore and demarcate the boundary from Nanga Arak (Pelagus) to the ulu Latong Kiri and to survey this stream down to Nanga Rosa. All reasonable requests of the natives living in the immediate neighbourhood of the protected area have now been investigated and acceded to in most cases. Final demarcation should now smoothly. the Menyong and Bah-Sama Protected were gazetted during the month, totalling acres. proceed Both Forests 108.000 The Forest Guard at Sarikei carried out a reconnaisance of a small area of old jungle on the Divisional boundary in the neighbourhood of Bukit Tibak Sirat in the ulu Sarikei. The question of a suitable method of protecting such a small area of jungle as a timber reserve for certain houses in the ulu Sarikei is still under discussion. There is a similar area to be examined in the ulu Stras (Binatang). The licences exploiting compartment 1 in Bukit Lima reserve is supplying the roofing timbers for the new Sibu hospital. The timber is to be Meraka, and the Divisional Forest Officer visited the area and selected and marked the trees for felling. Conversion is by hand-sawing. Now that this limber is becoming known it is gaining popularity locally, especially for launch building. The timber is little inferior to Semayur. and there is an almost unlimited supply in the Rejang delta. Seventy-one new patients were admitted to Sibu hospital during the month, and sixty-nine were discharged, hour hundred and forty-nine outpatients received treatment. Fifty-three N.A.B. injections were performed. Mrs J. M. Hoover left for Singapore via Kuching on the 19th by M.v. Rejang. Her departure means a great, loss to the community, and she leaves behind her a host of friends who wish her 'bon voyage’ and all possible happiness in the future. On the 28th Mr. F. L. G. Crossley and Mr. A. R. Snelus sailed from Sarikei in M.T.. Chamois to Rejang to meet H.M.S. Lowestoft Coniinmider A. R. M. Bridge), and returned on New Year's eve with Commander Bridge, three other officers, and eight other ranks. A very festive evening was spent. and the New Year was welcomed in the time-honoured fashion, the presence of the party from H.M.S Lowestoft adding very considerably to the success of the occasion. They sailed for Rejang at noon the next day in ML. Chamois and Irene. The District Officer. Rejang, reports that after five days' hearing, a charge of criminal breach of trust against the manager of a Binatang trading company was adjourned for consultation with the Divisional Treasurer. In the Bankruptcy Court considerable time was spent in hearing and deciding claims against the estate of Chop Hock Eng Hong of Binatang. Apart from evasions of the Rubber Restriction Orders, and a few petty thefts, there was little crime in the Lower Rejang district during the month. All Penghulus came down to Sarikei or Binatang during the month, and reported all well in their districts. Rumah Lingoh of the ulu Sarikei was ordered to be broken up, the villagers to join other longhouses. owing to constant quarrelling and concealment from the Penghulu of offenders against Dayak customary law . The Tua-Tua Kampong of Daro and Bawang. Matu, tendered their resignations on the plea that they have been refused a monthly salary and work on commission only. The resignations were not accepted. but it is felt that there will be difficulty in retaining the services of non-salaried Tua Kampong while the old Tua Kampong are still being paid a monthly salary. Reports from the coast indicate that the padi crop will not be very successful. In spite of the continued low price of pepper, there were 35 applications for new pepper gardens in Sarikei. Exports from Sarikei and Binatang during Decemlier were as follows .— A contracl was signed for the construction of a new police station at Kelupu. on the Binatang river. The new Binatang police barracks were completed and occupied during the month. About one and a half miles of the Roban Road were reconstructed by contract during December, and a mile of the Jakar Road was repaired and cambered by prison labour. Prisoners also repaired the Repok Road. One new culvert was made in the Jakar Road. Contracts were signed for the delivery of gravel in Sarikei. and at the 4th and 5th miles. Jakar Road. Earth-filling in front of the Sarikei godown was completed, and the surface gravelled. H.M.S. Lowestoft., a sloop of 1,000 tons, arrived at Kuala Rejang on the 29th. and anchored off Jerijeh. The District Officer and Mr. A. R. Snelus went on board as soon as she anchored, and met Commander Bridge and his officers. It appears that Lowestoft is on a cruise from Singapore along the North Coast of Borneo to Hong Kong, and is taking the opportunity of checking some of the survey marks put up by H.M.S. Herald. On the 31st the ship entered the river and anchored off Rejang. On the same day the Commander, with three officers and eight ratings, travelled up to Sibu on S.L. Chamois for a short visit. The Director of Public Works visited Sarikei on the 4th for consultation concerning the wharf and godowns with Mr. Sehested, of Gammons. Ltd., who was in Sarikei from the 2nd to the 4th. The Survey Office in Binatang was closed down on the 16th, and Mr. G. A. Farrelly left for Sibu. Land settlement proceeded steadily in Sarikei, and ordinary land routine work is sufficiently heavy to keep a large, stall fully occupied. The Acting Superintendent of lands and Surveys, Mr. W. Harnack, visited Sarikei and Binatang on the 8th and 9th. One ease of major incest came before the Court at Kapit during December. The guilty parties were fined in accordance with Dayak customary law. The District Officer, Kapit, reports that the migration of pigs across the Batang Rejang is still continuing; this is the third month nf the migration, which is said to be unprecedented even in the memory of the old men of the district. Penghulu Ansi reported that a girl of about ten years had been taken by a crocodile from Rumah Empurau (Pala Wong district); news waa also received that the wife of Tuai Rumah Lobang and another woman were drowned when their small prahu over-turned in rapids above Nanga Balang (Ga'at district). Three rhinoceros horns were brought to Kapit by Dayaks from Rumah Blikau towards the end of the month. A large quantity of rattan was exported from Song during the month. Owing to continued high water, the stores for the Ga'at blockhouses were taken up to Nanga Stapang by outboard on December 9th, and Native Officer Abang Ahmat and L.C. Emban mailed themselves of this opportunity to visit the blockhouse, returning the next day. The District Officer. Mukah, reports that there seems to be a certain amount of fever at the station, possibly malarial. Dayak padi and jagong are reported to be doing well in the ulu Oya, but as usual pigs and rats are causing considerable damage. The price of raw sago dropped a few cents during the month. The average price was 61 cents per passu at Sungei Kut. and 52 cents at Dalat. 94 1/2. koyans of raw sago. 20 pikuls of rubber and 140 pikuls nf jelutong were shiped from Oya district by sen; and 98 koyans of raw sago were shipped through Sungei Kut. The new Government offices at Dalat were completed and opened on December 7th. Fourth Division News. DECEMBER. The Resident, Fourth Division, left for Haram on December 5th, and returned to Miri on the 9th. Baram Station had been almost entirely flooded for the past three weeks, and the appearance of the bazaar and kampongs was most distressing. The Native Officers informed the Resident that, in their opinion, the floods were becoming worse every year, and that such long and disastrous inundations had seldom occurred in the past. It seems possible that the gradual clearing of jungle and drainage upriver is the cause, and there seems to be little hope for the future. Accompanied by the District Officer and Tuanku Taha, the Resident inspected land alongside the Limbang Road with a view to moving the entire Malay population on the Fort side of the river there. The ground is above flood level but of poor quality, mostly sand and shale; this, however, would not be a definite drawback, the main obstacle being the lack of water. If the move was approved. Government would have to erect a water supply station, but this should not be difficult. It is reported that Vamco Ltd., the sawmill at Bakong controlled by Messrs. Cook and Doughty, is working at full pressure, and can take no more orders. Messrs. Cutfield. Hudden, and Scott, visited Miri for Christmas. A District Officers' meeting, at which a number of matters were discussed was held on December 24th. The only absentee was Mr. J. 0. Gilbert. District Officer. Bintulu, who was unable to be present. In his report for December, the Resident. Fourth Division, mentions that it is remarkable how the number of prisoners in the Division has decreased in the past few years. Seventy-one out-patients were treated at Limbang Government Dispensary during December, and thirty-one N.A.B. injections were given. The District Officer. Limbang and Lawns, reports that a few Kelabits from the Ulu Medihit visited Limbang for the first lime for many months. These people had been preparing for this trip, or bad been actually on their way since the middle of September, but were constantly held up by bad omens. Thesesame omens and their superstitions were also responsible for many of these people, especially those from Bulling Imat's house, failing to harvest any of their crops last year. The party spent only three nights in Limbang, and then commenced the return journey. A number of Dayaks also came down, mostly bringing rattans, but they reported that they could get no price for this commodity, and in many cases the Chinese traders would not even make them an offer for it. Padi crops in the Limbang district generally look very healthy, and the recent fine weather should help to ripen the padi quickly. There has been almost a glut on the market of entimun and other vegetables grown by Kadayans. Awang bin Gador. who escaped from custody in 1931. was recaptured in the Ulu Tutong and was returned to Limbang thunks to the assistance of the Brunei Police. A big Chinese wedding was solemnised at Limbang on the 11th, when the Capitan China's son was married to a daughter of the late Mr. Soon Keng. The marriage and celebrations were on a very large scale for a place the size of Limbang. A rough draft of Bisayah. Murut, and Tabun fines and customs was completed at Limbang during the month. The price of damar at Bintulu has fallen, but it is hoped that this is only a temporary drop. The District Officer reports that the natives still seem prosperous, and that during the period before Hari Raya plenty of money was spent; certainly there were lavish display- of lanterns and other decorations in the kampongs. The increase of the native population at Bintulu will shortly reader a new kampong scheme necessary. It is hoped to demarcate a kampong between Sebiew river and the Sarawak Timber & Trading Company's concession. Work on the drainage of the Bintulu landing ground (first stage) was completed during the month. After the visit of Mr. R. E. Edwards, of the Public Works Department, it was decided that the perimeter and cross drains should be deepened to a depth of two feet. Work has also started on a trial patch of the landing-ground with the object of removing all roots and top soil until sand is reached. A regatta was held at Bintulu on Christmas Day. but it was purely a local affair, no outside boats competing. The regatta went off very successfully, and ended with a display of fireworks in the evening. This display appeared to be appreciated by the Dayaks present more than any of the other events. Arrangements have been made with the Sarawak Steamship Co.. Ltd., for m.v. Margaret to call at Kuala Bintulu in the course of each trip North and Smith. This greatly improves the mail service of the Station. Bintulu. indeed, now has weekly mail service with Singapore. Trade still looks good, and the two steamers in direct communication with Singapore continue to bring io and take out satisfactory cargoes. The body of a Chinese girl named Chia Ah Kia was found in Baram River on December 1st. and an inquest was held next day. A verdict of suicide whilst of unsound mind was returned, but. since there was insufficient evidence to prove that she had deliberately drowned herself, this was later revised to one of death by misadventure. The District Officer, Baram. reports that on December 23rd Chin Leong, a suspected leper, attempted to burn down a shophouse in Long Lama, but the flumes were discovered and extinguished. Apparently he has been suspected to lie leprous for some time, but has always resisted with violence any Digestion for 8 hours at local room temperature(29° c.) with occasional shaking has been foundto be sufficient. Sufficient extract to fill a 10 c.m.tube has been obtained by holding the bottle overa 7 c.m. folded filter and pressing the mass witha glass rammer, receiving the filtrate- direct intothe tube ; quick and clear filtration being obtained. A 10 c.m. tube contains 7 c.c. and the quantityof rotenone observed in the tube, calculated to the20 c.c. of xylene employed is the quantity ofrotenone in the 10 grams of sample taken. I invite criticism of this proposed optical methodby workers interested and better equipped than Ihave been, with a view to establishment, modifica-tion, or condemnation as a procedure for the valuationof tuba root. D. JAMES. Kuching. Sarawak. January 15. 1936. 23rd January, 1936.The Editor. The Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. Sir, Kuching Market Price List. January, 1936. KUCHING Article Meat Beef steak Do curry meatBuffalo 1st quality Do Curry meat Do Feet Do Heart Do Kidneys Do Liver Do Bones Do Tail Do Tongue Pork lean Do lean with fat Do lean with bone Do with fatDo fat Pig. Brain Feet Head January Average formonth During the past week I made an excursion ona bicycle from Kuching to the Bau area and someobservations which may be of interest in Sarawakwere made. It appeared to me for instance thatall the successful gold mines lay on a straight lineon the map. this line running approximately N.E.-S.W. Now the late Doctor Kroll left a record showingthat lines could be drawn connecting places wherefossils of definite periods had been found and thatfor a given period, these lines always had the samehearings on the map. He dealt with Mezozoictimes and showed that the Treassic, Jurassic, andCretaceous periods each had a constant and differentcompass bearing. It appears that the direction of the straight lineconnecting all the good gold mines corresponds toDoctor Kroll’s direction for the Cretaceous |«nod.It would be a good work if this observation couldbe utilized to vindicate—at least partly the hype-thesis of Doctor Kroll the memory of whom iscarried affectionately by many in Sarawak. Based on these ideas, I made a suggest ion to someDayak prospectors that gold would be found in thedirection of Jagoi. and was immediately informedby them that such is the case but that Dayaks didnot like to dig for samples, because of remains ofbones and pottery in the ground. I was assured that the pottery is really there andit is decorated,—"ada bunga-bunga.” This may be of archeological interest and notdifficult of investigation, the district being not farfrom the road-head. For the rest, the five days’ spent on the road werenot ideal because of rain and mud, but they wereconducive to good health, and the hospitality enjoyedalong the road was very comforting. The world—so far as Sarawak is concerned .—is a good, friendlyworld. Yours faithfully, D. JAMES. Kuching Market Price List. Digestion for 8 hours at local room temperature(29° c.) with occasional shaking has been foundto be sufficient. Sufficient extract to fill a 10 c.m.tube has been obtained by holding the bottle overa 7 c.m. folded filter and pressing the mass witha glass rammer, receiving the filtrate- direct intothe tube ; quick and clear filtration being obtained. A 10 c.m. tube contains 7 c.c. and the quantityof rotenone observed in the tube, calculated to the20 c.c. of xylene employed is the quantity ofrotenone in the 10 grams of sample taken. I invite criticism of this proposed optical methodby workers interested and better equipped than Ihave been, with a view to establishment, modifica-tion, or condemnation as a procedure for the valuationof tuba root. I). JAMES. Kuching, Sarawak. January 15, 1936. 23rd January, 1936. The Editor, The Sarawak Gazette,Kuching. SIR, During the past week I made an excursion ona bicycle from Kuching to the Bau area and someobservations which may be of interest in Sarawakwere made. It appeared to me for instance thatall the successful gold mines lay on a straight lineon the map. this line running approximately N.E.-S.W. Now the late Doctor Kroll left a record showingthat lines could be drawn connecting places wherefossils of definite periods had been found and thatfor a given period, these lines always had the samehearings on the map. He dealt with Mezozoictimes and showed that the Treassic, Jurassic, andCretaceous periods each had a constant and differentcompass bearing. It appears that the direction of the straight lineconnecting all the good gold mines corresponds toDoctor Kroll’s direction for the Cretaceous |«nod.It would be a good work if this observation couldbe utilized to vindicate—at least partly the hype-thesis of Doctor Kroll the memory of whom iscarried affectionately by many in Sarawak. Based on these ideas, I made a suggest ion to someDayak prospectors that gold would be found in thedirection of Jagoi. and was immediately informedby them that such is the case but that Dayaks didnot like to dig for samples, because of remains ofbones and pottery in the ground. I was assured that the pottery is really there andit is decorated,—"ada bunga-bunga.” This may be of archeological interest and notdifficult of investigation, the district being not farfrom the road-head. For the rest, the five days’ spent on the road werenot ideal because of rain and mud, but they wereconducive to good health, and the hospitality enjoyedalong the road was very comforting. The world—so far as Sarawak is concerned .—is a good, friendlyworld. Yours faithfully D. JAMES. Kuching Market Price List.  