THE Sarawak Gazette. PRICE KUCHING, Wednesday, July 1st, 1936. 20 CENTS. The Sarawak Gazette. WEDNESDAY, JULY 1st. 1936. Local and Personal. JUNE. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie arrived in London on Saturday after¬ noon, June the 15th. Before leaving for England, His Highness the Rajah very kindly announced that members of the public are welcome to visit Bedil House gardens on any day of the week between the hours of four and six p.m. These gardens are really delightful, and are well worth a visit. We hear that Mr. E. O. Bruce, Sarawak Civil Service, who is at present at home on leave, is shortly to be married. Mr. Bruce, who has been granted one month’s extension of furlough, is due to arrive in Singapore on August 8th, and we understand that on his return to Sarawak he will relieve Mr. W. S. B. Buck as District Officer, Miri. Mr. and Mrs. Buck sail from Singapore on home leave on August 14th. Mr. Bruce’s appointment at Miri will be of a temporary nature only, since he will take over from Mr. H. E. Cutfield as District Officer, Limbang and Lawas, when Mr. Cut¬ field assumes the acting Residency of the Second Division in September. Mr. L. N. Reynolds, Commissioner of Sara¬ wak Constabulary, left Kuching on furlough on June 22nd. Mr. Reynolds intends to travel to England, via Africa, and we wish him a pleasant trip and an enjoyable leave. On the 20th a most successful farewell dinner was given in Mr. Reynolds’ honour at the Rest House, Kuching. A large number of Europeans attended, and music was pro¬ vided by the Kuching Military Band. Mr. D. V. Murphy will act as Com¬ missioner during Mr. Reynolds' absence. The wireless station at Nanga Meluan, the new Government station in the Ulu Kanowit, was opened on the 8th, Mr. F. Harding of the Posts and Telegraphs Department having visited Meluan for that purpose. His High- ness the Tuan Muda despatched the following message to Mr. A. Macpherson, District Officer, in order to mark the occasion “The linking up of Nanga Meluan with so called civilisation by means of wireless affords me an opportunity of sending all good wishes to yourself and the new station and of expressing my confidence in Meluan's future.” Mr. F. S. Gibson. Managing Director of Messrs, the Straits Steamship Co., paid a short visit to Kuching early in the month, arriving on June 1st and leaving on the 13th. On June 25th a telegram was received to say that a Chinese trader and his wife had been murdered in the Ulu Spak, Saribas dis¬ trict. The heads of the murdered couple were not taken, and the motive for the crime was apparently robbery. No details have yet reached Kuching. We welcome back Mr. N. A. Middlemas, Superintendent of Lands aud Surveys, who returned from furlough on June 22nd We understand that Mrs. Middlemas expects to arrive in Kuching in August. Mr. R. E. Le Sueur returned from on valescent leave by the Vyner Brooke on June 19th, and proceeded to Sibu a few days later. Mr. H. M. Calvert, who left for Singapore for medical treatment on the 6th. returned on the 22nd. We publish in this issue a most interesting article on the Kelabit country by Mr. E. Banks, Curator, Sarawak Museum, who recently returned from a protracted visit to that area. Mr. Banks has finally solved the riddle of the stone “monuments’’ discovered by the late Captain Andreini some years ago, and has proved conclusively that they are not relics of a vanished civilization, but the work of living Kelabits. The first telephone conversation between Kuching and Serian was held on June 19th. The line is extraordinarily clear, and reflects great credit on the Posts and Telegraphs Department. People speaking from Serian, which is a good forty miles away, sound just as though they were in the next bungalow. We welcome to Sarawak the Rev. Father A. H. Blair, C.R., who arrived in Kuching on June 22nd to join the Fathers of the Community of the Resurrection. Mr. R W. Hammond arrived in Kuching on June 29th on a visit to his son, Mr. I. S. Hammond of the Land and Survey Depart¬ ment. He left a few days later for Mukah. where Mr. Hammond is at present stationed. Economic and Social Development in the Colonies. W. H. McLean,Ph.D. (Glas.), M.Inst.C.E. INTRODUCTORY. Recent trends and tendencies in colonial develop¬ ment. mainly the result of changes in world economic and social conditions, deserve close study aud research. With regard to economic matters there was not the same need for close study in the. days of expanding markets. The economic condi¬ tions which now exist, and seem likely to continue, have called for some government action in trade matters in all countries including the colonies. Such action is taken to improve the trade position and it entails it continuous review of the economic, situation to note what is happening and make necessary adjustments as conditions change. As the social betterment of a colony must depend, to a large extent, upon its economic development, it is essential that the progress of both should be co-ordinated. It is obvious that the more or less haphazard development, which often took place in the days of expanding markets, could not be allowed to continue under present world conditions without risk of economic disaster and consequent social distress. It is therefore desirable to determine what underlying general principles should be observed in guiding or carrying out economic and social develop¬ ment either by government or by private enterprise in any territory. For example, the simple formula that development depends upon "men, money and markets" seems obvious, but many disasters have occurred through neglect of one of the. factors ; while the same may be said regarding neglect of the now accepted principle that education should be related to the economic and social needs of a territory. This article reviews economic and social develop¬ ment in its main aspects or departments, that is Trade, Education, Public Health, Agriculture. Labour, and Communication. The need for their co-ordination is shown, while reference is made to the underlying principles which should be remem- bered in considering development both locally and at the centre. The need for co-operation becomes evident when we consider the relation of depart¬ ments to each other, and to the trade and economic situation. A great deal of this co-operative work is already being done in certain Colonies. Encourage- inent and assistance to government and private enterprise in the Colonies is given in this direction by the Colonial Office which is responsible for general guidance in questions of principle, policy, and economic background in development. TRADE. It is now realised that development must be based upon sound economic foundation of trade, and that with the means thus provided the programme of social betterment can be earned out. It is only by the expansion of trade that a colony can provide the means for raising the standard of life, which, so far as possible, must be protected against the violent fluctuations and consequent distress of past ex¬ perience. Until recently the existence of the Colonial Em¬ pire as an economic entity was barely recognised. There was no common economic and commercial policy and no machinery for putting it into effect. The economic problem of the Colonies during recent years has been, and is to-day, a problem of finding markets. Owing to absence in the past of assured markets and of sufficient economic ‘information, development was necessarily haphazard, and it often proved to be uneconomic, because, under the conditions which existed, there could be no co¬ ordination of production throughout the Colonial Empire. Without such information it is impossible to encourage colonial producers to grow what would profit them most or, on the other hand, tn dissuade them from growing commodities which could not be profitable. In order to be in a position to give advice and guidance in these matters the Colonial Office has prepared the necessary information and taken the appropriate measures. A comprehensive economic survey has been prepared and published under the title of “An Economic Survey of the Colonial Empire.’’ and it will be revised and issued by the Colonial Office annually. It gives a complete review of the resources of every Colony, Pro¬ tectorate. and Mandated Territory, its financial position, and its actual trade, import, and export, and the markets of both, as well as the expenditure on each of the public services stated as a proportion of the total expenditure. A comprehensive survey of shipping services throughout the British Empire was also undertaken. The information contained in these surveys has been of great utility in connec¬ tion with the arrangements for securing markets for Colonial produce. Markets have been as far as possible assured throughout the British Empire largely by the system of tariff preferences, and also in certain foreign countries by tariff reductions, the allocation of quotas and other measures. The arrangements with foreign countries are contained in the Trade Agreements with the United Kingdom ; an interesting example is Poland where the usual “two-way” trade, so popular in most countries, is definitely converted to “triangular” trade, the United Kingdom's adverse balance of trade with Poland being put against concession by Poland to British Colonial produce. This is a valuable con¬ cession and a trade principle useful to the Colonies when circumstances permit of its application. The Colonies having now obtained an assured footing in Empire markets and in certain foreign countries, colonial production can be directed to take the fullest advantage of all the openings thus secured. There are also the international schemes which regulate the production of colonial commodities where, for the time being, production greatly exceeds consumption. The schemes of this kind now in operation for tea. rubber, and tin have materially improved the financial position of the territories concerned. The foregoing refers to the measures taken to expand the external or export market of the Colonies. Expansion of the internal market follows from the resulting increased purchasing power and rise in the standard of living of the natives This expansion of the internal market includes foodstuffs produced locally. In this connection the study of nutrition may yield information as to lines of foodstuffs the production of which might be encouraged by educative measures. Economic progress on these lines depends upon co-operation with the medical and educational authorities. The suggestion that the Colonies should actively promote industrialisation, as an aid to economic progress, requires special consideration because it has serious limitations. It is obvious that manu¬ facturing countries like this and many others could not afford to provide unlimited free or assured markets for manufactured goods in direct competi¬ tion with their own. All questions of starting new industries in the Colonies must therefore be examined on their merits and with due regard to the welfare of the Colony as a whole and as a primary producer. It should be remembered that industrial development may change rapidly the entire economic life of a more or less primitive and agricultural people, and, to undertake it on insecure markets might result in disaster and suffering. Further, a secure economic foundation cannot be neglected by the authorities because industrialisation may entail changes in population distribution as well ad the provision of communications and public and social services. Education, for example, must be adapted to it. It should not be forgotten that agricultural populations are better able tn meet financial crises as they can turn from cash crop production to foodstuffs. EDUCATION. Steady progress throughout the Colonies has been made in recent years, not only in elementary education but also in secondary, vocational, and technical education. The Advisory Committee on Education in the Colonies has recently produced two valuable reports, one on the education of African communities and the other on the Higher Educa¬ tion of Natives in Africa. Briefly, the aim is to train the native to become a useful citizen and to take his part in the economic and social progress of his country. Recent developments recognise the need for co-ordination in all the agencies aiming at social and economic improvement. It is also recognised that the nature of the education and the numbers trained should be related to the economic and social needs of the territory. It would be a mistake, for example, to flood an agricultural country with clerks or carpenters; yet there are examples of this. The “Memorandum on the Education of African Communities"'issued by the Colonial Office in 1935, states that the true educational aim “involves a clear recognition of the intimate connection between the educational policy and the economic policy, and demands a close collaboration between the different agencies responsible for public health, agriculture, and schools." Reports show that in many colonies an encouraging co-ordination in the work of these services is already taking place, and that the economic aspect is not being neglected. The intimate connection referred to is also found to exist in the work of the Advisory Committee on Educa¬ tion which is frequently called upon to examine questions of educational development including agricultural and medical education, as well as to consider the demands of economic development. The Memorandum referred to points out that there is need for the promotion of adult education if a pro¬ gramme of social betterment is to be fully realised. This adult education would he related to the agricultural; technical, and medical school activities and would include the improvement of agriculture by farm demonstrations, assistance in the marketing of crops, the building of better houses, the improve¬ ment of sanitary arrangements, water supply, drainage and other health measures. The Annual Reports of some Colonies show that already a certain amount of co-operative work is being done along these lines. In dealing with the broad educational objective the Memorandum referred to states that “a programme of general social advancement will progressively require for its execution a steadily increasing number of well-trained African doctors, agriculturists. veterinarians, engineers, teachers, and research workers.” PUBLIC HEALTH. With regard to public health there has also been great progress in recent years. On the principle that “prevention is better than cure,” the modern practice is to concentrate on preventive measures, and it has been found that this can best be done by co-operation with other departments. Much attention is being given to the prevention of disease by improving sanitary conditions and by anti¬ malaria and other measures. It is agreed that unsatisfactory health conditions are one of the main factors which have retarded the advancement of some of the Colonial peoples in the past. The Memorandum on community education, already referred to, states that the school “can give instruc¬ tion in practical hygiene, inculcate sound habits of health, and explain the need and methods of im¬ proved sanitation .... Health propaganda among the young will be to a large extent wasted effort unless it is linked up with a campaign con¬ ducted by the Medical Department among the adult members of the community............................ ” Public health is closely linked with economic d velopment and it is safe to say that some, areas could not be developed without first undertaking public health measures. Again, economic develop¬ ment involving, perhaps, land drainage for agricul¬ tural purposes, may also be the only method of improving the health conditions of the area and clearing it of, say, malaria. The opening of the air line between the Sudan and Nigeria was only possible after steps had been taken to clear by drainage the aerodromes and the land in their immediate vicinity of the mosquitoes which might communicate yellow fever. Particular attention is now being given by the medical authorities to preventing the transfer of malaria, dengue, and yellow fever by mosquitoes in aeroplanes. Reports from the Colonies show that the close connection between public health, education, and economic development is becoming recognised, and that as economic development raises the standard of native life so the public health improves. Attempts are being made to co-ordinate progress in all the departments so that the work of each would follow a programme lending towards the same objective, namely, the general advancement of economic and social conditions. With reference to nutrition and increased consumption of foodstuffs leading to an expansion of production in a Colony, it was noted under the heading of “Trade’’ that economic progress on these lines depends upon co-operation with the medical and educational authorities. AGRICULTURE. Economic development in the Colonial Empire is largely agricultural. A necessary counterpart of the measures to obtain or retain markets has been to ensure efficient production and marketing of the Colonial products. There is hardly a commodity in which some efforts in this direction have not been made. In the case of hardwoods, it was arranged that selected Forest Officers from each Colony con¬ cerned should be sent here to study the requirements of the markets and to become acquainted with the research work being done on the qualities of Colonial timbers. In the West Indies co-operation has been obtained in their shipments of vegetables to the Canadian market. The marketing of bananas is now being considered. The clove industry, upon which Zanzibar is entirely dependent, has been organised and a stable price maintained. The assured market for grapefruit has been followed by an improvement in the types grown and improved grading and packing. These are a few examples of what has been done. Apart from the development of entirely new commodities, the securing of markets has encouraged the development of alternative products in Colonies hitherto dependent on one or two basic crops, the failure of which might be dis¬ astrous. For example, experiments are being made for the growing of bananas and citrus in West Africa. The Economic Survey, referred to, shows that in a number of instances Colonies were importing food supplies which they were capable of producing or supplementing themselves. In so far as Colonies can produce food instead of importing it, they improve their balance of trade. Encouragement in this direction has been given to producers and already the growth of commodities like rice and cassava is being undertaken or increased. Under the beading of “Public Health,” and with reference to nutrition, the possibility of increasing production and consumption of foodstuffs was noted. The Memorandum on community education, already referred to, states that the school activities “need to be correlated with the efforts of the agricultural department to improve the economic life of the community.“ There is evidence that co-ordination along these lines is already being done in some Colonies. LABOUR. It is necessary to consider the local labour question especially in economic development schemes which entail large works like irrigation; it may be a factor which determines the programme and even the practicability of the schemes. It is desirable to know, not only the numbers available, but also the suitability and adaptability of the labourer and the possibility of migration, as well as to take account of the social aspect of the question. It is of interest to note the report that in some Colonies the recent slump forced plantation workers to take up food crop cultivation, and that they are now expanding economic crop cutivation on their own account which they can often do at less cost than the plantation. The question of labour conditions is one which receives due consideration in the Colonies it is satisfactory to record. COMMUNICATIONS. The question of transport is usually important in any scheme of economic development. The pro¬ ducer must be able to transport his economic or cash crop at a cost which will enable him to compete in his market. The nature and the amount of the traffic must be estimated, and this, along with the length of haul, will determine the type of transport which would be most economic. Carriage by water being the cheapest form of transport the aim should be to get the produce to the sea by the most direct route. For long hauls the railway and for short hauls the motor vehicle is usually the most economic form of transport. The roads should be constructed as nearly as possible at right angles to the railway so as to act as feeders to it, and not parallel with the railway and thus in direct competition with it. This principle has sometimes been overlooked with unfortunate results. Under certain conditions the use of the "roadless” type of motor vehicle may be economic. The development of ports requires a comprehensive study of possibilities of the import and export trades as well as the economics of ship¬ ping and the proximity effect of other ports. It is well to remember that the layout of the transport system may determine new town and village locations, and this entails public, health questions such as suitability of the site and of the water supply. The well-being of the inhabitants may depend upon the proper location of these things. Recent developments in transport by air have also shown the need for co-operation with the public health authorities to prevent the spread of disease- Reference to this has been made under the heading of "Public Health." CO-ORDINATION OF DEVELOPMENT. From the foregoing the intimate relation between departments is clearly seen. It has been shown that economic development, that is to say produc¬ tion should be related to the markets available. It is also evident that social betterment must be related to economic development. This means co¬ ordination in all these matters. It is of interest to note that the Economic Survey, referred to, provides information which will assist Colonial Administra¬ tions to prepare or revise programmes of general development co-ordinating all department work in a Colony. Reports show that plans and programmes of this nature exist in some Colonies. The need for them has been recognised: for example, the Report of the Kenya Expenditure Advisory Committee, 1933, contains the following recom¬ mendation : "We have been struck by the absence of any province-wide or colony-wide plan of develop¬ ment activities embracing all departments. This we regard as a serious deterrent to organised progress which should be remedied at the earliest possible date.” • With regard to machinery for the preparation and execution of such programmes the Memorandum on community education, already referred to, makes the following statement regarding social betterment programmes which is equally applicable to those of economic development : "If a co-ordinated pro¬ gramme of social betterment is to be successfully , planned and executed, some new type of organisation seems to be called for. Whether the ends in view can be achieved by conferences of the heads of technical departments at the centre, or by provincial conferences of technical officers, or by the establish¬ ment of some form of rural community council on which the voluntary agencies could be re¬ presented, or by some combination, modification, or development of these methods, is a matter for the Government for the various territories to determine.” From the departmental schemes or plans of economic and social development (education, public health, agriculture, and public works) the pro¬ grammes for a few years ahead can be prepared and related to each other and to the economic situation, that is to the possibilities of trade development in the Colony and the consequent financial position. The information so provided would be useful in framing estimates. In this way a balanced pro¬ gramme of development can be pursued ; there is less risk of economic disaster to the population and also less risk of development being pushed too far ahead of possible markets as has sometimes occurred in the past. There are throughout the Empire, examples of railways, harbours, irrigation and other works which have never justified their existence, their construction was undertaken on insufficient information regarding the economic background. Similarly, educational and public health schemes have sometimes been prepared which had no relation to the economic situation and to the needs of the country. There are cases where educational develop¬ ment not so related has necessitated modification of the original aim in order to avoid further waste. A balanced programme of development in a territory is necessary to avoid, for example, too much being spent in one direction while other essential work is starved. An unbalanced development generally results in waste. The Report (1934) on the financial and economic position of British Honduras disclosed an example of development based upon an inadequate economic foundation. The Report states that there has been "failure to plan ahead” and that the policy of development work "has resembled a succession of impulsed inadequately thought out.” It must be clearly understood that the development programmes cannot be rigidly adhered to. They must be elastic and subject to annual or frequent revision as well as to the modifications necessitated by changed conditions and by the financial situation. Their general aim is to ensure that balanced economic and social development which is essential to progress, and to assist the authorities in giving the guidance in development required by producers and others in the Colonies.—Reprinted from "journal of the Royal African Society," April, 1936. The Kelabit Country. AN ACCOUNT OF A RECENT VISIT. The Kelabit country, situated in the headwaters of the Baram River, is reputed to bo a fabulous place where food and drink flow in abundance, where rice, potatoes and vegetables grow in profusion, where buffaloes, cows and goats thrive, and where a delectable kind of salt is prepared. In addition to all this, the whole country is situated between three and four thousand feet above sea level, and is said to enjoy an almost European climate. One can reach this paradise by several different routes, but each of them involves a climb of 5,000 feet or more over the Tama Abo mountains, and for this reason its products are not widely known, and its confines are not often visited. From Baram station a boat journey of at least eight days—longer, if the river is in flood,—brings one to a fort at Lio Matu, beyond which the river enters into deep gorges and becomes impassable for boats, and one has to take to one's own flat feet. Of the two available routes, the one taken on this occasion was up the Selungau river, a tributary of the Baram, over the hills to avoid crossing the headwaters of the Selungau about twenty-six times, and then down into a Kelabit house at Long Lelang. which can also be reached by going up the Akah river, another tributary of the Baram notorious for its rapids. The watershed between the Selungau and Akah is a spur of the Tama Abo mountains, here only 1,500 feet high but soon rising again to some 5,000 feet at Mt. Murud Kechil. From Long Lelang a day's walk brings one to Ansalam. crossing again a watershed between the Akah and Tutoh, another tributary of the Baram river likewise notorious for the rapids in its middle reaches. Down the Tutoh and over another watershed nearly 4.000 feet high takes one into the Keba'an, a tributary of the Tutoh here unnavigable. but with several Kelabit houses separated by the inevitable couple of thousand feet of bill Finally one leaves the Keba'an river to aseend Pungga Pawan, part of the Tama Abo mountains some 5,000 feet high, and from which one can see the true Kelabit country stretching away below. There follows a descent into the first house at Dalam Bah, an interesting spot where the Kclabits have taken to irrigating their padi, which grows in profusion: this season they had so much they had not vet finished reaping, whilst the people in the mid-Baram had finished long ago and were preparing to clear their farms for next year’s crop. I have never understood their system of irrigation; their bunds are often three and four feet high, and consist of solid walls designed, I believe, as much to keep the flood water out as to keep in the necessary water for the young padi. The whole system is certainly most ingenious, and one actually sees water being conveyed from level to level, often crossing other streams, in a succession of hollowed- out tree trunks. Though this and some other parts of the Kelabit country are quite flat, it is a popular misconception to believe that the whole of it is so, and that billiard balls can roll about at will, for there followed some distinctly hilly walks to Pa Trap, Pa Mein and Pa Bengar before the flatter country was again touched at Pa Mudok and Pa Mada. At Pa Mein exist the famous salt springs, which are nothing m e nor less than a rather slimy looking pool exuding bubbles of gas. Alongside this pool stands a weird looking factory where I half expected to find a Chinese distilling arak; actually it is used by the Kelabits to boil down the brine for the sake of the salt. They recently had another try at salting down their buffaloes in the hope of being able to sell the meat, but the salt was apparently not salty enough, and the meat- would not keep. The Pa Mudok country was dotted with open gladea and clumps of enormous bamboos, so large, indeed, that they use them for house posts, and the whole made a most agreeable landscape to the European eye. From Pa Mada I followed an old Kelabit trade route across country, over the Tama Abo mountains again and down into the Tutoh and Ansalam. The first part of the journey took me over the usual bills, here about 4,000 feet high, and down into the Libun river, one of the main divisions of the Baram river, which is some 25 yards wide at this point and is a quietly flowing stream with muddy banks, al¬ most like a down-country river.  It is possible to reach Pa Trap, Pa Mein and Pa Mudok in boats up and down this river, but the Kelabit, used to walking, is scarcely yet broken to boats, and any¬ way there were none available. The next day's walk was over the flat, across the Pa Biau and for about two hours across a wide quite flat plain, extending for miles up and down river. The soil was very white and sandy, no use to anyone; the vegetation was scrubby and mossy, often consisting of pure stands of selunsor trees, the whole so flat that once cleared and stumped any amount of aeroplanes might land almost without further levelling. Leaving this, I followed the flat valley of the Menaloh for the rest of the day, passing next day over the Tama Abo mountains at a height of 5,000 feet down into the Selunok, a tributary of the Tutoh, and only another half day’s walk from Ansalam. Of the three routes to and from the Kelabit country this is the easiest walking, but it is seldom used because it passes no houses, and three or more nights must be spent in the jungle. The last part of the walk is also famous for its leeches; when stopping every hour or hour and half or so for a smoke, and to give the coolies a chance, I have taken off as many as sixty of these creatures at a time. They are not the ordinary penny-plain leech, but the tuppence-coloured hill variety with all sorts of yellow patterns down the back. They are no respecters of persons, and they fasten on any¬ where from tip to too. Even if they do get away with a cupful of blood, one can still scarcely believe the traveller’s yarn of the “intrepid” explorer fainting from exhaustion and being eaten alive by leeches: I, for one, should die of thirst long before that! The Museum Collectors, whom I had pre¬ viously sent to the mountain, dipped a feather in the arsenical soap used for curing skins and smeared it on their feet and legs; this was apparently too much even for these pests. From Ansalam the same route was followed home but with much trouble at Long Lelang; about a year after a Kelabit dies they collect the bones out of his coffin, bury them in a jar, and celebrate with a “wake.” Long Lelang celebrated a double event on my arrival. The people had killed two buffaloes, many pigs and hens, and prepared thirty-six jars of rice spirit. Now a jar holds anything from three to ten gallons; they put some cooked rice in the bottom, add a few odds and ends to give it a kick, and fill up with water; when that is finished, they fill it up again and yet a third time; so that in view of the fact that they did not number altogether a hundred people, the consumption of food and drink can be imagined. In spite of getting very drunk and all talking at once like a lot of birds in a Kayu Ara tree, there was neither a quarrel nor an accident in the two days’ celebrations, partly due to the Kelabits' inherent good nature, and partly to the large amount of “blotting paper" consumed. The Kelabit is a really hard worker and only goes on the spree more or less occasionally ; as one put it,—"We have no prohibitions, like the down-country fellows, who won’t eat this and that, and refuse deer on Fridays, we are husky fellows, look at our bodies." (They certainly are very well-made and muscular.) Then with a sly grin he said—"We did try eating some centipedes and a scorpion not so long ago, and we were not ourselves for the next seven days. This is I believe to be true, for 1 went to some trouble to verify it. After one night of this party I retired to a hut in the rice fields for peace; the Kelabits lurched along next day with the rest of my goods, whilst we had our revenge fishing the drunks out at the river crossings, now in full Hood. Down the Selungau next day I was led astray into a Kenyah Leppu Nyamok house, where a most cheerful night was spent; these people seemed to be dance mad, and it was no uncommon sight to see the baby torn from the breast whilst the mother went off to dance. From then on the Baram river let us down, and we spent the next seven days watching it flow bank high past Lio Matu Fort, leaving us no chance to get down river through the rapids. I visited the Kelabit country six years ago to see some stone remains that the late Captain Andreini thought to be of Chinese origin, but beyond the fact that they did not seem so to me. I had no real idea what they were. This time the Kelabits camo clean with the whole story; they showed me some stones carved since my last visit, explained some of the old ones, and showed me some more and also their burial grounds, so the trip began to take on rather a funereal aspect. After a great man dies and his bones are put in a jar for burial, there follows a "wake" such as I have described. The Kelabits then select the top of a prominent hill or ridge and cut a large rentis or kawan as a memorial to the dead : this can be seen as a gap in the trees from miles around. They also dig, usually in the middle of the path and on the crest of a hill or mound, a ditch often some ten yards long and three to four feet deep and broad, which they call a nabang. This is a feat of consider¬ able labour. Often in the vicinity of this nabang they erect a pair or two pairs of upright flat-sided stones, protruding five and six feet above the ground ; they do not shape or work these stones in any way, but find them in the river bed—I have seen one ear-marked for the next funeral—and as they weigh a considerable amount it is the labour of many men to cart them up hill on a sort of travois. Further search in the vicinity of the nabang will disclose the jar with the bones of the deceased, but Kelabit aid is sometimes necessary, and they are apt to be a bit reticent about it, especially with strangers. T must have seen scores of these upright stones, some with a large flat stone at the foot, and also quite a number of solitary jars, both old and recent; on two occasions I was shown an actual collection of jars and stones grouped together, so that there is no doubt that the latter are used by Kelabits in connection with burial ceremonies. The jars vary in size' being both medium and large, but the Strangest was a huge block of soft sandstone, shaped like a jar, hollowed out inside for the reception of the bones, and closed on fop and covered with a lid. The whole was embedded in the ground, above which it stood some five feet, and I have seen a similar one. together with upright atones, among the Trusan Muruts, (who are the same people as the Kelabits,) though none of these people would tell me what it was. The Kelabits pointed out that jars, which are now numerous, were once scarce, and therefore they formerly made use of these stone "urns." Similarly there are throughout the Kelabit country a number of crude human carvings, cut on stones, often in relief, and these the people admitted were done by their ancestors. They admitted, also, that a carving re- presenting a woman and a dog near Pa Mein was originally done to commemorate the slaughter of - some innocents close by, and they pointed out that on another stone near Pa Bengar (a carving of a man in relief) the man was wearing the pigskin loin-cloth, formerly a feature of Kelabit apparel, but now displaced by cloth and bark. There is therefore no further doubt that the stone objects in the Kelabit country are of recent and present Kelabit origin, and not Chinese. They are carvings connected with special events, upright stones being associated with burials. Perhaps the main interest is that in the Naga country of Assam some carvings identical in shape with the Kelabit ones occur; there are numerous stone urns for the reception of the bones, some like the Kelabit ones, some different, and finally an even greater profusion of upright stones, many similar to those erected by Kelabits. Many of the similarities between Nagas and Borneans are doubtless due to their living under same climatic and other conditions, which necessitate the same shifts for a living, but by no stretch of the imagination can one apply this theory these stone monuments, and in Sarawak, at any rate, they are to be found mainly among the Kelabits. occasionally among the Muruts. but among no other people.— E. BANKS. Films of the Month. Nou and again—but not very often—a film appears which justifies all the preliminary ballyhoo without which no screen play of any importance car be launched. Such a film was Mutiny an the Bounty. starring Charles Laughton, Clark Gable and Fran¬ chot Tone The previews of this picture contained all the frantic encomiums that we have come to expect. and the usual overwhelming array of facts and figures. As usual, they misfired. We were not in the least interested to learn that Mutiny on the Bounty had cost. $2,000,000: that it had taken two years to make: and that a complete M-G-M production unit bad been sent 14,000 miles to tropic waters in order to shoot the scenes in their actual locale. Nor, to tell the truth, did our pulses race at the announcement that no less than 5,000 natives had appeared in the Tahitian scenes. Hollywood has cried "Masterpiece!" too often; too often has the mountain brought forth a ridiculous mouse. Superlatives are the everyday language of film¬ land’s “barkers." and they have long ceased to thrill us, or even to awaken our interest. But this time they were justified. Mutiny on the Bounty is a superb piece of work, perfectly cast, perfectly acted, and perfectly produced. Moreover, for once Hollywood resisted the temptation to include the normally indispensable love interest. For once the directors were content to rely on the truth,-------- which, in this case, is dramatic enough in all conscience, and the result was worth it a hundred times. Why on earth do they not try this simple expedient more often? The amazing story of the Bounty is too well- known to need repeating here. Suffice to say that the film kept quite astonishingly close to history ; this. in itself, was a most refreshing departure from precedent. Laughton was superb as ‘Bread¬ fruit' Bligh, although in actual fact the latter, of course, was by no means the sadistic brute that Laughton made him out to be. All the same, if Bligh’s character was painted in colours that were rather too dark, let us admit that this heightened the dramatic effect. In spite of this exaggeration, Laughton did triumphantly succeed in giving us a picture of the real Bligh,—the fearless commander and splendid seaman who spoilt everything by tactlessness and excessive severity. But chiefly by tactlessness, for it should be borne in mind that Bligh's trouble came not from his men, but from his officers. If he was a martinet, as he undoubtedly was. it is only fair to remember that so were the great majority of naval commanders in the late eighteenth century for the excellent reason that they had to be; crews composed of gutter-rats from Wapping and the sweepings of the jails could not be controlled by appealing to their better natures. Severity was essential in those days; Bligh's mistake was that his severity was never tempered with good humour and understanding, and so degenerated into intolerable harshness. All the same, history proves that responsibility for the mutiny cannot be assigned wholly to Bligh. Fletcher Christian’s temperament, the abnormal conditions of the Bounty’s cruise, and the beaux yeux of the Tahitian ladies were at least equally guilty. But let us revert to the picture. Laughton, as always, was a joy to watch, and made the most of a part that suited him down to the ground. Clark Gable, too, gave the performance of his career as Fletcher Christian, even though he had to give us a highly idealised version of that moody and difficult Master’s Mate. Franchot Tone, who is rapidlv building for himself a place as the best of Hollywood’s younger actors, was convincing as Midshipman Byam: he has an attractive per¬ sonality, and is rapidly acquiring all the tricks. Of the remainder of an excellent cast we must single out Stanley Fields for his performance as Muspratt, and Francis Lister for his admirable vignette of Captain Nelson. One of the most remarkable things about Mutiny on the Bounty was that not only were all the tech¬ nical details correct, but that the actors wore their costumes as though they had lived in them for months, and not as though they had just taken them from a peg in the dressing room. Every thing about the production was right. In this picture the eighteenth century navy came to life again before our eyes with a reality that was really startling. The court-martial scene was parti¬ cularlv impressive. Yes. we must hand it to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for this film. Mutiny on the Bounty is a trium¬ phant vindication of the screen as an artistic medium, and what is more important. it proves con clusively that a succès d'éstime does not necessarily mean failure at the box office. Veritably a winner. Becky Sharp, the first full-length technicolour film to come to the Sylvia Cinema, was interesting as an experiment, but was spoilt by certain techni¬ cal defects. The colour, for instance, had the peculiar crudity that distinguishes the tinted views of 'The Wye at Hereford,’ or ‘The Toad Rock at Tunbridge Wells’ that we find in third-class rail¬ way carriages, and owing to some fault in focussing, the features of the actors were never sharp except in close-ups; indeed, the faces of the figures at the back of the screen indeed, were mere indistinguish¬ able blurs which made the figures themselves seem like lifeless dolls. But all the same, the film was reasonably good entertainment, although the story did not bear any great resemblance to Thackeray's masterpiece, on which, of course, it was based. Miriam Hopkins was perfectly cast in the name part, and Sir Cedric Hardwicke brought the wicked but fascinating Mar¬ quis of Steyne to life with great success. The acting honours, though, went to Nigel Bruce as Jos Sedley. This fine actor is especially suited to Regency parts, as those of us who saw him in The Scarlet Pimpernel will agree. He has to perfection the contours, the vinous hauteur, and the incipient apoplexy of the period; even his voice seems fruity with vintage port, awakening visions of Vauxhall and the bow window of White's. A delightful performance. Wallace Beery has such an outstanding per¬ sonality that we are apt sometimes to forget what a good actor he is. ‘If Beery is in a film, it's always worth seeing' we say, and thereby do him rather less than justice. In Viva Villa be lived the part of the simple, yet brutal, peasant leader who was able to rally his fellow peasants into a revolt which swept across Mexico, and which ended the rule of the land- lords who were crushing out the country’s life. He gave the character a certain simple dignity that made us overlook his primitive savagery; his coarse¬ ness and disgusting cruelty seemed merely the understandable foibles of an essentially great man,— which, incidentally, was probably very near the truth if we are to believe what has been written about Pancho Villa. This was an impressive film, contain¬ ing some beautiful photography and a good deal of brutality that might well have been cut out. Stuart Erwin was delightful as the hard-boiled American newspaper correspondent. A film of a very different sort was Trouble in Paradise, a slick, ultra-modern comedy with an all- star cast of seven, of whom the brightest luminaries were Herbert Marshall. Miriam Hopkins and Kay Francis. This story of two successful crooks was particularly well acted and directed, and bristled with wise-cracks. It held our attention all the time, but since it was produced by Ernst Lubitsch that was only to be expected. First Division News. MAY. Sixty-nine civil and sixty-five criminal cases came before the Kuching Courts during May. Of the latter, twenty-eight were for breaches of Muni- cipal bye-laws. A Dayak woman named Achoi attempted to commit suicide on the night of May 28th by cutting her throat with a razor. After being admitted to the General Hospital she was found to be mentally unbalanced. An inquiry into the death of a Chinese named Chu Kui was held at the 10th Mile. Penrissen Road, on May 8th. A verdict of death from natural causes was recorded. Mr. A. F. R. Griffin returned to Kuching on May 3rd after having spent a week cruising along the coast between Santubong and Tanjong Datu in a fruitless endeavour to apprehend smugglers. H.M.S. Herald, under the command of Com¬ mander N. A. C. Hardy. R.N., anchored at Pending on the evening of May 28th. Entertainments arranged for the ship’s company included hockey and football matches against Kuching teams. The District Officer, Ban, reports that there was no serious crime in the district during May. Four hundred and two persons were treated at Bau Government Dispensary during tie month, and 107 N.A.B. injections were administered. The dresser accompanied Mr. H. P. K. Jacks, Cadet, on his tour of the kampongs in the S. Tubah area. The District Officer records with regret the death of Towkay Liew Kim Siong, eldest son of the late Towkay Ah Tet, of Bau. Deceased, who was well known in mining circles, was 69 years of age, and leaves a widow, four sons, four daughters, and thirty- seven grandchildren. It appears that as a whole the Land-Dayaks in Upper Sarawak have had a better padi harvest than in previous years. Dalian Rubber Estates harvested 12,870 lbs. of dry rubber during Muy. Rainfall at Bau was 4.95 inches, and at Dahan 11.82 inches. At least two new gold-mining companies, The Oriental and The Lian Hap, arc in course of forma¬ tion. The former propose to work the old Monggak lease, while the latter will work an area in the neighbourhood of Pajiru. Among rhe visitors to Bau during the month were Dr. and Mrs. Pinkley. of New York, and Mr. Bein, of Peiping. The party visited many of the caves in the district in search of fossils, without any great success. Bau Club, which has been revived and re¬ registered, is proving a blessing to the Government staff as a whole. The following table gives the individual output of gold for April, 1936. by the various mining com¬ panies operating in Upper Sarawak:—  The natives in the Lundu district have completed harvesting their padi crops, and all have nearly enough for the year with the exception of Kampongs Sejirin, Sebembnn and Skambal. These people have nothing to collect. Chai Kui, a Chinese of uncertain address, was sentenced to nine months’ R.I. for impersonating a Government servant and selling charms to Dayaks. In the Resident's Court a Dayak named Gedet, of Kampong Krosen. was charged with the murder of a Chinese, named Chen Ah Foo. The case was still adjourned at the end of the month. The padi harvest in the Samarahan area has been patchy, but most natives have more than enough for the year. At Moyan, however, the Sebuyow Dayaks harvested no crops at all. The condition of the Kuching-Serian Road has improved lately, and during May a motorcar was able to get through to Serian, this being the first time for five months. The District Officer, Serian. in the course of a report on a visit to the coastal area of his district, remarks that the Malay kampongs of Jaie and Tungkah are much dirtier than any Dayak village, the people not appearing to take any pride in their houses at all. Dahan Rubber Estates (1933) Limited. The Directors now submit their Report and Statement of Accounts for the twelve months ended the 31st December, 1935, duly audited. The Crop of Rubber for the twelve months amounted to 235,230 lbs., as against 272,850 Ibs. for the previous year The average net sae price was 5'24d. per lb., the f.o.b. cost being 4 5Id per lb. The reduced crop is accounted for by the increased restriction which is applied in Sarawak by tapping holidays, which amounted to six weeks, and by the refusal to allow any importation of labour. This has caused a labour shortage and a consequent loss of crop. During the present year a huger acreage will be tapped as about 100 acres of old Rubber on Dahan division, which were rested for four years, have now been opened again for tapping and parts of Estate "C" young clearings are also being brought into the tapping round Mr. W R. T. Picton-Warlow visited the Company's properly in November last and bis recommenda¬ tions have been of great assistance to the Board The Working Profit for the year mounted to £713 8s 4d.. to which has to be added Income Tax Recovered and Interest received, making the total of £799 14s. 9d. ; Debenture Interest and London Expenses amounted to £1.559 14s 4d . making a loss for the year of £759 19s. 7d., thus increasing the Debit Balance On Profit and Loss to £1,085 0s. 6d. The retiring Director is Mr. ALLAN HERBERT WYNN, who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. The Auditors, Messrs. Peat, Marwick. Mitchell & Co. offer themselves for re-appointment. By Order of the Board, ROBERTSON, BOIS & CO., Agents and Secretaries. 13, Rood Lane, Loudon, E.C.3. 14th May, 1936. REPORT OF THE AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF DAHAN RUBBER ESTATES (1933) LTD. We have audited the above Balance Sheet with the Bonks and Vouchers of the Company in London and with the Returns from the Estate Manager and from the Company's Agents in Sarawak and have obtained all the information and explanations we have required. No provision has been made for deprecia¬ tion. Subject to this observation in our opinion such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the stale of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shewn by the Books of the Company and the Statements referred to. Football. KUCHING 1. H.M.S. HERALD 0. On Sunday, 21st May, Kuching met H.M.S. Herald in a game of soccer on the Padungan ground. The Herald kicked off, and both teams came near scoring in the opening minutes, the Kuching goalkeeper being immediately tested with a long hard drive, while at the other end a breakaway on the Kuching right nearly proving productive. Kuching had most of the play territorially throughout this half and pressed the Herald goal repeatedly, but the light ball was difficulty to con¬ trol, and the home inside forwards wasted many excellent opportunities by ballooning the ball over the bar. At one period the Herald goalkeeper was obliged to throw himself at full length on several occasions to divert well placed shots round the post. Tn spite of this, however, it became early apparent that conditions were better suited to the visitors whose greater height and weight was a definite advantage with the light ball continually in the air. Their better ball control was another factor in their favour, and had it not been for the weak finishing of their forwards they might very well have gone ahead from one or two breakaways before the interval. At times the Kuching halves were very hard worked, and only the speed of the backs saved the situation Nevertheless, two or three drives from long range was all that Abang in the Kuching goal had to contend with before half time arrived with no scoring on either side. On the resumption of play Kuching immediately went ahead with a goal from Chater; a high centre from the right finding him unmarked on the opposite wing. Following this reverse the Herald redoubled their efforts and were unfortunate in not forcing a draw. In this half they were having equally as much, if not more, of the play than Kuching but the finishing of their forwards still left much to be desired. Kuching nearly went further ahead in the closing minutes when Seng Chiang, the home inside right, broke through only to be foiled a few yards from goal by the visitors’ goalkeeper who rushed out and took the ball from practically off bis toe. The Herald show signs of developing into a very useful side when their players have had the oppor¬ tunity of playing a few more games together, and Kuching only had their superior speed to account for their narrow win on this occasion. Kuching: Abang; Lian Seng, Weng Sheng; E. M. Selous, Silet, Yahya; Salleh, Seng Chiang, Yaw Joo, J. A. Benson, W. J. Chater. Referee : D. C. White. —W. J. C. Sarawak Turf Club. MINUTES OF A COMMITTEE MEETING OF THE SARAWAK TURF CLUB HELD AT THE SARAWAK CLUB ON 12TH JUNE, 1936, AT 6.15 P M Present—The Datu Shahbandar, Messrs. Wee Kheng Chiang, Chan Qui Chong, E. S. Holl and G- T. Bates. In the Chair.—Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang. Absent.—Messrs. J. B. Archer, B. J. C. Spurway, C. D. Adams, P. M. Adams, H. B. Crocker and Tan Sum Guan. (1) Minutes.—The Minutes of the Committee Meeting held on the 8th May, 1936, were read and confirmed. (2) Next Race Meeting.—Mr. Bates, for the Secretaries, informed the Committee that H.H. the Tuan Muda had approved of the next Meeting being held op tb,e 26th and 28th September. (3) Unlimited Sweep Tickets- It was decided that the Secretaries should proceed to issue the Unlimited Sweep Tickets as usual. (4} Meeting 1936.—The Secretaries produced a provisional working account for the Spring Meeting showing a profit of approximately $5,600. This was approved but it was suggested by the Chairman that the expenditure on morning coffee should be reduced if possible. (5) Race Course Development Fund.—A letter from Mr. Dick suggesting that in all matters which affected both the Committee of the Turf Club and his Committee the two Committees should act together was read and approved. The Secretaries were instructed to inform Mr. Dick that. the Com¬ mittee of the Sarawak Turf Club reciprocated bis views and would be willing way possible. Transfer of Stand. (6) Inner Racing Track. Terrace and Stands. received from Messrs. J. B. and H. B. Crocker and no to co-operate in every As no views had been Archer, P. M. Adams decision had yet been come to regarding the suggestion by Mr. Spurway to transfer the stands to the hind owned by the Chartered Bank it was decided to defer discussing these questions until a report could be submitted by the Bub-Committee who are to inspect the land. (7) Jockeys' Fees.—Mr. Holl pointed out that the Resolution No. 8 passed at the Committee Meeting held on the 8th May was not at all clear and conflicted with Regulation No. 11. He pro¬ posed that the resolution be amended to read :— The Maximum fee to a winning Jockey shall be $15 and for second place $10 and for a ride $5 in the absence of any agreement to ride for a lower sum. This was seconded by Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang and passed. Sarawak Turf Club. PROVISIONAL PROGRAMME FOR THE AUTUMN MEETING, 1936. FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, 26TH SEPTEMBER, 1936. RACB NO. 1  [2.30 p.m. THE TUAN MUDA'S CUP. Value $250. A piece of plato of the value of $100 presented by His Highness the Tuan Muda with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 2 [3.0 p.m. THE GOLD MINERS' PURSE. Value $250. $100 presented by the Gold Mining Community, Upper Sarawak. with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 3 [3.30 p.m. THE DATUS’ STAKES. Value $250. $50 presented by the Datus with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 4 [4.0 p.m. THE B.C.L. STAKES. Value $250. $50 presented by The Borneo Company Limited, with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 5 [4.30 p.m. THE MATANG STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 6 [5.0 p.m. THE PENDING STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division HI ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 7 [5.30 p.m. THE RANEE'S CUP. Value $250. A piece of plate of the value of $100 presented by Her Highness the Ranee with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for ponies of any Division. Distance 1 mile. Entrance fee $10. Post entries allowed at $20 but no refund. $5 refunded to non-acceptors. Handicap published on the Course. SECOND DAY, MONDAY, 28TH SEPTEMBER, 1936. RACE NO. 1 [3.80 p.m. THE SARAWAK STEAMSHIP CO'S STAKES. Value $250. $100 presented by The Sarawak Steamship Company, Limited, with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 2 [3.0 p.m. THE SIME DARBY STAKES. Value $250. $50 presented by Messrs. Sime Darby & Co., Ltd., with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 3 [3.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 4 [4.0 p.m. THE JUBILEE STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 5 [4.30 p.m. THE STATES SPRINT. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 6 [5.0 p.m. THE TURF CLUB STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 7 [5.30 p.m. THE RAJAH’S CUP. Value $300. A piece of plate value $150 presented by His Highness the Rajah with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for ponies of any Division. Distance round the course (about 1 1/3 miles). Entrance Fee $10. $5 refunded to non-acceptors. Handicap published on the Course. Post Entries allowed at $20 but no refund. REGULATIONS. Entries.—All nominations, accompanied by en¬ trance fees, description of ponies and declaration of colours, are to be made to the Secretaries not later than 29th August, 1936, at noon. Scratchings.—Owners scratching ponies before 5 p.m. on 25th September, 1936, for First Day and 5 p.m. on 27th September, 1936, for Second Day, will receive back half their entrance fees. Handicaps.—For First Day will be posted on the Notice Board at the Sarawak Club at noon on 12th September, 1936, and for the Second Day at noon on 27th September, 1936. The maximum weight shall be 11 stone 7 lbs. and the minimum 7 stone. Course.—Will be opened for training on 15th August, 1936, at 5.30 a.m. Penalties.—Winners of any race at a meeting after publication of weights shall carry a penalty of 7 lbs. for each race with a maximum of 11 stone 7 lbs. Prizes.—20% reduction if under 5 entries. No second prize will be awarded if there are less than 3 runners and no third prize if less than 5. Jockeys.—Professional jockeys who are Sarawak subjects and have not ridden more than two winners under Sarawak Turf Club Rules, may claim an allowance of 7 lbs. The maximum fee to a winning Jockey shall be $15 and for second place $10 and for a ride $5 in the absence of any agreement to ride for a lower sum. Whip.—No whip used in any race shall exceed two feet in length. Spurs.—If spurs be worn these shall not have rowels. Ponies.—Must run on the First Day to be eligible for entry in races on Second Day. Any Borneo pony of not more than 14 hands in height may be imported from B.N.B. and shall be eligible for entry in races open to Sarawak Ponies provided that their sires and dams were foaled in Borneo. All new ponies shall carry top weight on the First Day in the Division in which they are classified, which shall be as follows :— Division I over 13.2 hands to 14 hands. ,,    II   „     13.0     „     „ 13.2  „ ,,    III under 13       ,, Totalizator.—As usual. Cash Sweep.—As usual with the exception that the promotion expenses of 20% to the Club shall be reduced to 15%—the 5% being appropriated as follows :— Owner of winning horse ... 4% Owner of second horse ... 1% Visiting Members.—A visiting member shall pay a subscription of $5 per week or portion of a week during which he shall be a member of the Club. A nomination of such gentleman to be a Visiting Member shall be signed by two Ordinary Members as respectively proposing and seconding him. Strangers.—Persons not members of the Club or strangers not introduced by a Member, may be admitted within the enclosure of the Grand Stand or of the Paddock during any Meeting on payment of an entrance fee of $5 for each day's racing. Owners.—Are requested to see that their syces and jockeys obtain necessary badges for entrance to Paddock. Objections.—By owners shall be accompanied by a deposit of $10. Where not otherwise especially mentioned the Rules of the Race Course shall be the same as those adopted by the Straits Racing Association. The decision of the Committee of the Sarawak Turf Club shall be final in all matters of dispute. Communications to be made to THE BORNEO COMPANY LIMITED, Secretaries, Sarawak Turf Club. Tennis. SARAWAK CLUB TOURNAMENT. Entries for the following handicap events close on July 11th :— Ladies' Doubles, Men's Doubles, Mixed Doubles and Men’s Singles. KUCHING OPEN TOURNAMENT, 1936. The following is the draw together with the results of matches played to date:— Third Division News MAY. Twenty-six civil and fifty-eight criminal cases came before the Sibu Courts during May. A Dayak named Liom anak Tgoh was charged in the Resident’s Court, Sibu, with culpable homi¬ cide, as a result of one Makam having been found dead of a gunshot wound. The case was dismissed and the accused was retried under Dayak Undang- Undang and required to pay pati nyawa. On May 29th a Coroner’s inquest was held at Sibu upon the body of a female Chinese child aged 3. A finding of death by misadventure (drowning) was recorded. The District Officer, Sibu, records with regret the death on May 27th of Haji Iman, Tuan Imam of Igan. The land revenue collection for the Sibu district for May amounted to $7,747.17, shewing an increase of approximately $2,880 compared with the previous month. The map and notification of the constitution of the Pelagus Protected Forest were completed and forwarded to headquarters for ratification. The area of this forest is 20,000 acres approximately, and the boundaries are formed entirely by natural features. The Director of Public Works visited Sibu from May 8tl to 10th. The Clerk of Works visited Kanowit, Song and Kapit. Ninety patients were treated in Sibu hospital dining May. There were fifty-four discharges and five deaths. Five hundred and sixty-seven out-patients received treatment. Seventy-three N.A.B. in¬ jections were administered, and three hundred and thirty vaccinations were performed. The general health of all communities was good. A Foochow youth was connoted of house¬ breaking by night at Binatang and sentenced to two years’ rigorous imprisonment and a whipping; this sentence was duly confirmed. At Sarikei, a Foochow was sentenced to six months’ rigorous imprisonment for house-trespass. At Binatang, a Cantonese coolie, having tied a kerosene tin round his neck, throw himself from a Chinese launch into the river and went straight to the bottom. The body was recovered three days later, and a verdict of suicide by drowning returned. The general health of the Lower Rejang district was only fair during the month. There was a lot of influenza at Matu. At Binatang. a Dayak with two spear-wounds in his side was successfully treated in the dispensary. Very little rubber appeared in Sarikei and Bina¬ tang bazaars during May as tapping had been prohibited during the greater part of the month. The tapping holiday was again successful in every way, the only persons found tapping (on the first day of the holiday) being two old and illiterate Chinese living far away in the Sarik. From the facts of the case it was evident that the culprits had mistaken the date and had no dishonest intentions; they accordingly received only light punishment. The Government vegetable garden at Sarikei continues to prosper, but as yet the Dayaks cannot be persuaded to show much interest in it. Repairs to the last two miles of Jakar Road were in progress during May. The Repok Road is now in quite good condition for a distance of some five miles out of Sarikei. Sarikei Municipal roads were kept Well cleaned by prison labour. The reconstruction of 300 feet of the road in front of Binatang new bazaar progressed well, the driving of mangrove sheet-piling being almost completed. The felling of the jungle obscuring the Cape Sirik light was nearly completed by the end of the month. The Distrcit Officer, Kapit, reports that two Chinese were fined $1 each and costs for stealing Government fruit from behind the fort; it is pro¬ posed to deal severely with future offenders since most of the bazaar inhabitants appear to think that they have a perfect right to the fruit. No other cases calling for comment came before the Kapit Courts during the month. Penghulu Temonggong Koh and Penghnlus Sihat, Puso, Manok Manchal, Ugak and Jugah visited Kapit during the month. On May Sth Uring (/) anak Inja and her father Inja anak Limbeng of Rumah Bansa, Batang Balleh, were drowned near Nanga Mirirai when their boat capsized. The water was very high, and the other ten occupants of the boat were lucky to reach the bank. On May 29th a bitterly disputed case of butang (adultery) involving minor incest, which has apparently been outstanding for about three years lowing to the absence of accused, was settled in the fort by the District Officer, Native Officers, and Penghulu Temonggong Koh. The usual fines were, inflicted. This case had caused much trouble in the Balleh, and had led to the breaking up of Ramah Nyalu, the house of accused’s father. On May 29th, Matthew Shim, Court Writer, Song, proceeded to Sibu for medical treatment having accidentally shot himself in the foot while hunting. Clerk Lee Chin Shin was sent from Kapit to take his place. Towards the end of the month vast quantities of fish of many varieties returned upstream after the end of the high water, and some, excellent hauls with jalas were made up at Nanga Balleh. At Mukah Daud bin Taha was sentenced to three months' rigorous imprisonment, and twelve strokes of the rattan for an unprovoked attack, with a dangerous weapon, on his wife. Apart from this there was no serious crime in the district. On May 22nd a big cock-fighting 'main' was held between Balingian Dayaks and some 120 Sarawak Oilfields' Dayak coolies. On the first day the latter lost $800 in bets and were anxious to borrow more money from the company. It was thought advisable, however, to cancel the second day's proceedings. The prison demonstration vegetable garden at Mukah continues to flourish with very little attention, apart from weeding. The soya bean crop is doing exceptionally well. Reports of Dayak padi crops in the Mukah dis¬ trict are very poor except for a few houses in the ulu Slangau. All crops have now been harvested. As usual, the Dayaks blame rata and other pests, but it is obvious that they themselves are partly responsible for the failure owing to their inherent laziness and lack of the most elementary agricul- tural knowledge. They do not seem to be unduly perturbed by the prospect of a padi shortage, however, and will no doubt subsist, as usual in the circumstances, on wild sago, paku and other jungle products. The price of sago is slightly down at Mukah, the average top price during May being 56 cents per passu. An offer of $47 for the Mukah Government temuai has been accepted. This boat was of little use to Government owing to her weight and the large number of coolies required to paddle her. The District Officer, Oya and Dalat, commends the Constabulary for the amount of evidence colluded in the recent grave robbery case at Kam¬ pong Penat in spite of the resolute silence of the kampong people. It was not possible, however, to obtain a conviction, and the three accused Were discharged. Two inquests were heard during the month. Tn the first, Basi bin Legod of Kampong Sunegi Ud, Dalat, was killed by a falling tree whilst clearing jungle. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned on May 16th. Tn the second, Soh Eng Hock, Hokien. of Dalat. committed suicide by hanging himself in Dalat bazaar on the evening of May 29th. At the inquest held on May Both a verdict of suicide by strangulation was returned; there was no evidence to show the state, of deceased's mind at the time of his death. On May 12th Dresser Mohamed Lazaroo arrived at Oya and proceeded straight to Dalat where he is to be permanently stationed. The work of turning (he old offices into a dispensary and small hospital has been practically completed, and notices have been posted informing the public that a dresser is now stationed at Dalat and that they should, in their own interests, take advantage of this. During the twelve days that the dispensary was open, thirty-three persons were vaccinated, twenty- four N.A.B injections were administered and fifty- nine out-patients were treated. These figures are encouraging. Melanau fishing was in full swing during the month, good catches being obtained. The price of raw sago shows a decrease of 2 cents on the figures for last month, the figures being 62 cents per passu at the Kut, and 56 cents per passu at Dalat. The amount of raw sago exported from the dis¬ trict decreased during the month, the figures being By sea ... ... 205 koyans By Kut ... ... 19 224 This shows a total decrease of 192 1/2 koyans on the total exports for last month. One motor schooner, three motor launches, three schooners and thirty bandongs cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 582 tons, a decrease over the figures for last month of 405 tons. In January last a notice was exhibited at Oya inforining the public that anybody found taking the young bamboo shoots from the Bamboo Avenue between the office and bungalow would be prose¬ cuted in the Police Court, as these bamboos were the property of the State and were to be preserved. This notice undoubtedly had the desired effect and many new shoots appeared. Unfortunately quite a number of these new shoots died when they were only three to four inches in height, presumably because they had insufficient earth to protect them. Owing to the temporary increase in the numbers of prisoners in the Oya jail, it has been found possible to surround each clump of bamboos with a border of belian attaps, and all the clumps have been filled in with earth to a depth of about a foot. It is hoped that the clumps will flourish again now as in former years. Fourth Division News. MAY. Messrs. L. N. Reynolds and R. G. Talbot of the Sarawak Constabulary arrived at Miri on May 19th, the former on a tour of inspection, and the latter to take over the Constabulary sector from Mr. D. V. Murphy. Work on the construction of the three new Government bungalows at Tanjong Lobang was practically completed by the end of the month; light, water and sanitation still have to be dealt with. Mr A. H. Noble, the General Manager of the Sarawak Oilfields, Ltd., and Mrs. Noble, left Miri on May 8th on furlough. The Right Rev. the Bishop of Labuan and Sarawak returned to Kuching by the same boat. On May 10th an interesting and important eVent took place at Lutong, namely the launching of a new sea-line. This task was accomplished success¬ fully, and without mishaps. The District Officer, Miri, reports that the first row of shop-houses at Sibuti has been completed and traders are moving in. The health of the Bintulu district was satis¬ factory in general during the month, although a good deal of sickness was reported amongst Dayaks in the Sebauh River. This appears to be a kind of fever which attacks people for three or four days. The District Officer, Bintulu, spent fourteen days during May travelling in the Kakus, Tatau and Anap Rivers. He visited all Bukitan, Punan and Dayak houses in these rivers, and reports that all natives appeared fairly contented. There were several reports of bad harvests, but as usual these were due more to laziness than bad luck, since last year many Dayaks left their farms, preferring to work logs or damar. There was a certain amount of grumbling about the forthcoming prohibition of tuba fishing, but those who chose to reflect were usually able to understand the objects underlying the introduction of this Order. The District Officer adds that since he was for¬ tunately able to borrow Dr. Morrow's outboard motor for this trip, it was done in about half the time that would have been taken had he used paddlcrs, and at about one quarter the Cost. Native tax has been coming in satisfactorily at Bintulu, there being very little outstanding at the end of the month. During May Mr. C. E. 0. Wood and Mr. C. E, Bailey of the Air Ministry, and Mr. R. E. Edwards of the Public Works Department, Kuching, visited Bintulu in connection with the landing-ground. A new scheme was drawn up and work has made very satisfactory progress. Tuanku Taha, Native Officer, Baram, reports that a Chinese named Chia Ah Nyit, aged about .35, was drowned on May 23rd at Lubok Nibong, Baram River, owing to the strong current capsizing his boat. The body was recovered on the evening of the 25th, and an inquest was held the following day. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned. Tuanku Mohamed, Native Officer, accompanied by Wan Haji Mohamed, Probationary Native Officer, left Marudi on April 28th for the ulu Baram; they were still away at the end Of the month. The Dresser-in-Charge went with them. Wan Suror, Native Officer, left Marudi on May 18th for Long Lama to supervise the auction of bird's-nests, aud from there he proceeded to the Tinjar and Bakong rivers to attend to Dayak affairs. The District Officer, accompanied by Wan Ali, Probationary Native Officer, left Marudi on May 25th for the Kelabit country, and will probably be away for three months. Three laksa of belian shingles and thirty-eight belian posts for the new bungalow at Baram arrvied from Bintulu by m.v. Margaret on May 10th.  The Curator, of the Sarawak Museum, returned from the Kelabit country on May 19th, and left Marudi for Miri on the 21st. At Limbang a Bisayah was sentenced to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for theft of buffaloes, this being hie fourth conviction for this offence. Dayaks have already started clearing their new farms, and very few natives visited Limbang during the month. Penghulu Wee and Belulok. who accompanied the District Officer to Kuching for the races, returned home with a number of jars they had purchased in Kuching. Three more buffaloes were purchased by Dayaks from the Third Division for transport to Kanowit for farming purposes. The pepper harvest is being collected at Limbang, but does not promise to be quite up to last year's standard and the price is most disappointing. Semayong, Tagal prisoner, who escaped from prison in April, was tracked and recaptured by Dayaks in the jungle in the Lubai on May 6th. Mr. and Mrs. Tolley of the Borneo Evangelical Mission in the Lubai arrived towards the end of the month for an extended stay in Limbang. Both Mr. and Mrs. Tolley have unfortunately been laid up recently with fever. The District Officer, Lawas and Trusau, reports that a number of Muruts came down from Tengoa during the month to pay tax. Everything is quiet in the district, and natives arc preparing to clear their new farms. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 11,012 lbs. of dry rubber durng the month. A section of the Gaya Road was cleared during the tapping holiday. The Kuala Lawas Customs jetty became unuseable and has been repaired as well as possible with the money available. Communication between Lawas and Labuan was worse than ever during May since m.l. Sanang went into dock for survey. M.V. Brunei and s.S. Laubaine called at Tagai on May 16th and 15th respectively. The tapping holiday was, as far as can be judged, a complete success in the Lawas district. Three Inspectors were employed, and police patrols were put out every day. No cases of illegal tapping were reported. On May 13th the Assistant District Officer, Lawas, met the District Officer, Mempakul, at Sindumin, in connection with the alleged smuggling of rubber between B.N.B. and Merapok. It was decided that all possible precautions had already been taken CORRESPONDENCE. [The Editor is not responsible for the opinions of correspondents.] KUCHING,' . 4th June, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette. SIR, In view of the recent controversy regarding the increase of the Royalty on gold to a flat rate of 10% ad valorem, the enclosed article entitled "Mining Royalties in the Empire,” which is taken from the May issue of the "Crown Colonist,” will probably be of interest to those of your readers who have invested in gold mines in Sarawak. The 10% Royalty is a tax of 10% of the total revenue of the Mine and this, coupled with the excessively high wages which coolies can now demand, through the shortage of labour conse¬ quent on the Government’s policy of restricting labourers entering Sarawak, will mean that some of the poorer mines cannot make a profit. The smaller producer and low grade propositions should be assisted and, as most of the gold ore in Upper Sarawak is of low grade, it would appear that a sliding scale of duty of, say, from 2 1/2 % ad valorem is essential. Yours faithfully, INTERESTED ONE. [Following a petition from representatives of the various gold-mining companies in Upper Sarawak, a Commission was recently appointed by Government to consider the question of royalty. This Commission heard a great deal of evidence, and after considering its report Government came to the conclusion that the mining companies had failed to make out any case for reducing the rate of royalty. Experience has proved that a sliding scale as advocated by the writer of this letter only encourages small, inefficient units, and that the existing flat rate of 10% is no burden to efficiently run concerns.—ED.] MINING ROYALTIES IN THE EMPIRE. Information gathered by the Mineral Resources Department of the Imperial Institute has been published in a volume entitled MINING ROYAL¬ TIES AND KENTS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (Imperial Institute, London, S.W. 7; 3s. 6d. nett). Some seventy-five officers of oversea Government departments replied to the comprehensive question¬ naire circulated by the Institute, and the data thus obtained, with that already available at South Kensington, therefore constitutes an authoritative work of reference on a subject of considerable im¬ portance to a large number of companies and individuals in the Empire. Most of the Colonies have mining industries of one kind or another, and the volume gives parti¬ culars of the royalties, export duties, and mining rents in force in East and West Africa, the Anglo- Egyptian Sudan, and Bechuanaland. In the West Indies there are Jamaica, Trinidad and the Leeward Islands; on the American mainland, British Guiana and British Honduras; and, off the southern extremity of the continent, the Falkland Islands. Asia is represented by Malaya, North Borneo, Ceylon, and Hong Kong; the Mediterranean region by Cyprus, Palestine and Trans-Jordan; and the Pacific by Fiji, New Guinea, and Papua. A list of Colonial territories in which no general mining legislation is in force includes Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Gambia, Malta, Mauritius, St. Kitts-Nevis, Seychelles, St. Vincent, Tonga, Turks and Caicos Islands, and the Virgin Islands. The main subject matter is divided into two parts. In the first, the statement for each country opens with a summary as regards the ownership and right to work minerals (whether vested in the Government or in private persons). Next follow details of royal¬ ties and export duties leviable on minerals and metals and the period, terms of renewal and "dead” or sub-surface rents of mining leases. Tn the second part the royalties and export duties detailed in part one have been summarised for reference purposes, under eight groups, i.e., coal; petroleum and natural gas; bituminous and oil shales; ores of iron and of the ferro-alloy metals; base metals; precious metals; precious stones; and miscellaneous minerals. Royalties levied on certain minerals are roughly uniform in many parts of the Empire, but in the case of other minerals wide divergence occurs, both as regards the amount and basis of the charge. Gold affords an example of rather widely varying rates and systems. In Great Britain rhe royalty levied is usually 2 to 4 per cent, of the value won. No royalty is charged on gold won from gold-mining leases in Queensland. Western Australia, or in New Zealand, but the last-named country’ levies an export duty. An ad valorem tax is favoured by many countries; the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan levies 2 per cent, while 5 per cent is specified iu Kenya, Tanganyika. Uganda, North Borneo, New Guinea, and Fiji. Southern Rhodesia graduates the tax between 2 1/2 and 5 per cent, according to the recovery of gold per ton of ore. Nigeria charges 6 per cent.; Sierra Leone. 9 per cent. and in South-West Africa and Sarawak, the rate is 10 per cent, ad valorem. On the other hand, a tax on profits is adopted by certain countries. Some countries assist the small producer by reducing the rate of royalty on small mineral outputs or profits, and others encourage the working of low-grade deposits in a similar manner. As regards tenure, most Empire Governments grant mining leases for definite periods, but a few encourage the operator to obtain the land in fee simple. Music at the Sylvia Cinema. KUCHING, 23rd June, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette. DEAR SIR, We are all very much indebted to His High¬ ness the Rajah for having presented such an excellent Cinema to the town which has so greatly added to the amenities of the place, and such being the case one feels considerable diffidence in asking for any changes in connection with the entertainment, but might it be suggested that occasionally a better class of music is played instead of music-hall jazz and songs which are neither music nor singing at all, or the numti tumti tiddly-pom of Gilbert and Sullivan, which is very little better. Many people have, I know, remarked how great an improvement it would be on the evening's performance if some good music is given. I refer more particularly to the first half of the performance, the latter half has music which is suited to the piece that is being played generally. It is not necessary to have highly classical music as only the very few appreciate it, but surely there is a very large selection to choose from in Italian and German Operas, Liszt, Beethoven, or the works of many others in which there are pieces that are well-known and pleasing to listen to. It may be said that the Jazz stuff is better suited to natives, Chinese, and many others who are very much in the majority, that they should therefore be catered for and considered, the Europeans being only a handful, I quite agree this should be so, but the answer is that as far as the former are concerned in this respect, it will not make the slightest difference to them seeing that Western music conveys little or nothing to their minds and is only a noise —so they will be just as pleased. As those in the European community who only like music-hall jazz and songs have had their turn all this time, it would be a kindness now to let those who prefer something different have a turn as well. Thanking yon for allowing me space for this letter. I am, Yours faithfully. X. The Bicycle Menace. KUCHING, 29th June, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette.. SIR, There would appear to be some 6,000 odd bicycles in Kuching and from some points of view this may be a good thing. But, since a large proportion of the 6,000 odd riders seem to think that the public roads exist solely for their con¬ venience, it is equally certain that from many other points of view, it is a very bad thing indeed. Can nothing he done to abate the bicycle nuisance in the streets of Kuching? There is, of course, the fact that the ease in getting a regulation framed is the exact measure of the difficulty experienced in getting it carried out. But sure, cyclist should not be allowed to ride more than two abreast and should be required to keep to the left-hand side of the road? Such a simple rule (if curried out) would add greatly to the comfort of the roads. If a fine should be the lot of the selfish cyclist what should be done to that most dangerous nuisance, the small boy (usually Malay) riding on a machine much too high for him? When he sits on the saddle the lack of control is obvious enough, but when, as is common, he rides standing on one pedal and with his other leg through the frame, he becomes a public nuisance. There will be a nasty, messy accident one day—and a careful motorist will probably get the blame. For these small sinners the application of Father’s hand or Mother's slipper would be most effectual. Perhaps the Teachers can do something? I am, Sir, Your obedient servant, TRAFFIC.  