THE Sarawak Gazette. PRICE KUCHING, Monday, March 2nd, 1936. 20 CENTS. The Sarawak Gazette. MONDAY- MARCH 2nd. 1936. 1935. The general recovery which we were able to record in our survey of 1934 was maintained almost without interruption during the past year. 1935, though not in any way a spectacular year, was yet one of prosperity and steady progress; the benefits of the trade improvement that was so marked in 1934 were felt everywhere, and the gains which this improvement made possible in so many different fields were consolidated. The financial position of the State was further strengthened during the year, the revenue exceeding the expenditure by approximately $875,000 as compared with $991,764 in 1934. It is worth (pointing out. however, that the difference between these two figures is significant in that it shows that when we speak of ‘recovery’ we do not mean that there has been any general return to pre-depression conditions. Far from it. A certain measure of settled prosperity has returned to the State, but that is all. Although we can now face the future with confidence, there is no present justification for any reversion to the blind optimism of the 1920's. Caution and foresight are still just as necessary as they were three years ago; it should be home in mind that the trade revival throughout the Far East is to a great extent due to rubber restriction, and although at the moment this measure appears to be achieving its objects, its success is not vet assured. Sarawak’s traditional policy of building up reserves during good years enabled the country to come through the depression successfully, and we are glad to see that this wise financial policy is again to bo followed. As soon as revenue shows a substantial surplus over expenditure there is always a temptation to embark on ill-considered schemes of ‘development,’ but fortunately the lessons of the slump have been taken to heart. and though development will, of course, proceed, it will do so on rational lines and will not be unduly accelerated at the expense of the financial stability of the country. Mention of development brings us to one of the notable events of the year, namely, the compilation of what is now known as the "Blue Reports" Towards the end of 1934 Divisional Residents were informed that a survey of the working of the administration during the past few years had caused His Highness the Rajah to direct that an inquiry should be held on the results achieved, and that a report should be furnished on which His Highness could he guided in laying down a definite policy for the future development of the State. The preparation of this report was entrusted to an experienced officer of the Civil Service, who was relieved of his ordinary duties for this purpose, and who was therefore able, to devote his whole time to the necessary inquiry, in the course of which almost every station in the country was visited. This officer's terms of reference Were extremely wide; lie was authorized to, and did. obtain the views of representatives of all sections of the community. The results were co-ordinated into an exhaustive report which is now in the hands of the Committee of Administration. Certain recommendations in this report have already been put into effect, and is understood that His Highness the Rajah intends shortly to appoint a commission to consider the remaining proposals, and to resolve them into a comprehensive scheme of development to cover the next ten years. The trade figures, which are at present only available for the first eleven months of the year, reveal a satisfactory position, though they show also that the steep upward trend that was a feature of 1934 has not been repeated during 1935. Trade has now found its level after the violent fluctuations caused first by the boom, and then by the depression, and has settled down to what we hope may be regarded as its normal condition. Rubber, which is our most important agricultural product, maintained a satisfactory price level during the year, the average Singapore quotation being $26.83 per picul. This comparatively high figure is, of course. directly attributable to the effect of restriction, which, although it has admittedly brought increased wealth to rubber producers in the State, has also resulted in unbalanced commodity values. This naturally makes for difficulties in any scheme of regulation not based on individual control. In addition to the natural restriction imposed by rigid control and limitation of immigration, and the normal reduced output self-imposed by smallholders by reason of their mixed occupations, and the lack of additional labour, it was found necessary to declare two tapping holidays. This gave rise, not unnaturally, to a good deal of dissatisfaction, and caused difficulties which varied according to the type and size of holdings. The first holiday appeared to be fully successful; the second was not so convincing, and it is now apparent that restriction will continue to produce serious problems which were not envisaged when the measure was first introduced. —problems, moreover, which are enhanced by the fact that estate rubber forms but a very small percentage of the total production, and that control is thereby rendered extremely difficult. It may be mentioned, in passing, that the control of immigration, although essential in the interests of restriction, cannot hut have an adverse effect on other industries, and therefore on the general prosperity of the State, by causing a shortage of labour just when it is most needed. This, though only one of the many difficulties encountered, will serve to show that regulation is not an unmixed blessing as far as Sarawak is concerned. Early in the year it was decided to undertake a census of rubber holdings throughout the State, and an Administrative officer and an officer of the Department of Lands and Surveys were seconded for this purpose, together with a special staff. Statistics obtained from the census are not yet complete, and it is therefore not yet possible to make an accurate estimate of the potential production of the State, but there can now be little doubt that it is considerably in excess of the quota allotted under the International Agreement, Rubber exports for the first eleven months of 1935 totalled 311.753 piculs valued at $7,162,804 as against 278,301 piculs valued at $6,583,509 for the same period of 1934, At the end of this article there will be found a table giving the comparative export figures for the more important products of the State for 1935 and 1934. Increases will be noted in rubber, sago-flour and damar, and, of course, in illipe nuts, of which there was no crop during the previous year. Decreases are found in pepper, gold, jelutong and rattans; the heavy drop in pepper exports was chiefly due to the serious slump in price during the latter part of the year, probably aided by the continued enhanced price of rubber. The illipe nut crop did not come up to expectations, although it is likely that a good deal remained uncollected and unexported, again probably due to the counterattraction of rubber. The first half of the year showed a considerable increase in imports compared with 1934, but it will probably be found that this increase was not maintained during the second half of the year; this falling-off will most likely be mainly attributable to the heavy slump in pepper. As a result of the continued high price of gold, this metal was profitably worked in Upper Sarawak, where about twenty-one mining companies were operating at the end of the year. Although gold exports showed a slight decrease on the 1934 figure, the production of one or two individual companies was unprecedentedly high, one syndicate obtaining no less than 1,017 fine ozs. during August. All hough it is anticipated that any serious drop in the price of gold would cause most of the mines in Upper Sarawak to close down, there are indications that gold-bearing areas are not confined to this district alone, and there is a possibility of extensive prospecting operations in the First Division in the near future. Considerable interest has also been shown in antimony. During the year excellent progress was made in the timber export trade. There are still obstacles to be overcome, but it is gratifying to note that three mills now export regularly to England, while another mill will enter the trade as soon as its equipment is complete. Exports to all parts in 1934 were just over 109,000 cubic feet; the 1935 figures are not yet ready, but by the end of the third quarter exports had exceeded 194.000 cubic feet. Exports to the United Kingdom for the whole year exceeded 45,000 cubic feet as compared with approximately 20,000 cubic feet in 1931. While on the subject of timber, the progress made with the protected forest scheme is worth noting. This scheme, which was introduced in 1934, seems to have eliminated the opposition with which the reservation of forests was so often met in the past, while yet giving adequate protection to timber. Dining the eighteen months of its operation 255.000 acres have been preliminarily proclaimed, while during 1935 181,000 acres were constituted protected forests, thus increasing the area dedicated to forestry in the State by about 50%. To turn to administrative matters, the country as a whole was peaceful throughout the year. A few Dayak outlaws remained at large in the Second and Third Divisions, but did not no active harm, since they have now become fugitives and remain in hiding in the more inaccessible parts of the interior. Their apprehension is therefore rendered exceedingly difficult, but the system of regular Government patrols in suspected areas, coupled with the maintenance of garrisoned blockhouses in the head-waters of certain rivers, effectually prevents them from coming into the open and doing any damage, and makes their eventual capture or destruction inevitable. One case of head-hunting occurred during the year, a Chinese pepper planter, his wife, and two children being murdered near Song by two Dayaks, who were caught shortly afterwards in the Second Division many miles from the scene of their crime. At their trial the two men pleaded guilty, and it appeared that this appalling outrage was a case of head-hunting pure and simple. The two men were duly sentenced to death and executed, and there is no doubt that their prompt arrest, conviction and execution has had a most salutary effect on the younger Dayaks. It is hoped that a lesson has been administered that will not soon be forgotten. During the year there was no disturbance or political tiniest anywhere, all races remaining peaceful and contented. There was, indeed, a marked increase in the general prosperity of tin native population, and the hardship which could be observed in the kampongs during the depression may now he regarded as a tiling of the past. Apart from rubber, there was an increase in the demand for certain commodities worked or produced by natives, and although this increased demand was only seasonal —as in the case of the. minor boom in damar which occurred at Bintulu—it was none the less welcome. Settlement of rights to land was completed in the Oya and Dalat district, and by the end of the year was well under way at Mukah. and had been commenced at Sarikei. At the end of the year settlement was also nearly complete, in the Balingian district. As a result of the rubber census, which woke up a large number of squatters, there was a rush of applications for titles for land already planted with rubber; the slump in pepper, however, resulted in a heavy decrease in applications for peppnr land. A census of the Simanggang Road area was carried out in December, and produced interesting results, since it was found that during the short time since the road was opened nearly three thousand people had settled in the one-mile reserve between the 10th mile and Serian, and that in the same reserve 7,300 acres had not merely been alienated, hut were actually under cultivation. Legislation enacted during the year included the Labour Protection Order, which consolidates all existing Orders and Regulations on the subject of labour, and which was prepared as a result of several years’ experience of the working of the old Order, which had been based on the Straits Settlements Ordinance; other important Orders were the Agricultural Pests Order, the Air Navigation Order, and the Carriage by Air Order. Air Commodore S. W. Smith, Air Officer Commanding the Royal Air Force, Far East, paid the first of several visits to Kuching on January 14th. Colonel J. F. Turner, Director of Works and Buildings in the Air Ministry, arrived at Pending by flying-boat on March 10th. It bad already been decided to construct landing-grounds at Kuching, Bintulu and Miri, and the sites for these landinggrounds were inspected and approved by Colonel Turner during his visit. Satisfactory progress on the landing-grounds at Kuching and Bintulu could be recorded by the end of the year. His Excellency Admiral Sir Frederic Dreyer, Naval Commander-in-Chief of the China Station, visited Kuching in H.M.S. Falmoutk on February 4th. Other warships which visited the State were H.M.S. Bridgewater, which arrived at Kuching on January 8th, and H.M.S. Herald which called at Pending on August 30th on her way to Rejang, where she carried out a hydrographic survey of the approaches to the Rejang River. She returned to Hong Kong on November 20th. His Excellency the British Agent for Sarawak, accompanied by Lady Thomas and Miss Thomas, paid a short visit to Kuching on August 8th, leaving for Miri the same night. During the year we were able to welcome the Earl and Countess of Inchcape, who arrived at Kuching on February 19th and stayed for some weeks. This was Lord Inchcape’s first visit to Sarawak. His Highness the Rajah left for England on May 8th, and returned on August 4th, accompanied by Dayang Valerie. Her Highness the Ranee arrived in Kuching on February 21th. His Highness the Tuan Muda arrived in Kuching on June 21th, having travelled from Amsterdam to Singapore by sir, and left the State by flying-boat on February 27th. Between the departure of His Highness the Rajah and the arrival of His Highness the Tuan Muda, the State was administered by the Committee of Administration. Local and Personal, FEBRUARY. When Her Highness the Ranee arrived at Croydon on January 17th, there was snow on the ground, —rather a contrast to Singapore, which Her Highness had left a week previously! Mr. A. W. D. Brooke has been appointed Assistant Collector of Land Revenue. Besut, Trengganu. We welcome back to Kuching the Right Rev. the Bishop of Labuan and Sarawak, who returned from furlough on February 24th. The Bishop was accompanied by the Rev. Father E. K. Talbot, C.R., M.C., Chaplain to the King. Father Talbot is superior of the Community of the Resurrection, having succeeded Bishop Frere in that position on the latter’s appointment to the Bishopric of Truro. We understand that he intends to remain in Sarawak until May. and that during his stay he will take the opportunity of visiting local mission outstations. Mr. R. F. W. Leonard of the Straits Steamship Co., Singapore, paid a short visit to Kuching during the month. Mr. D. V. Murphy, Assist ant Commissioner, Sarawak Constabulary. returned from furlough by the Marudu on February 3rd. Mr. Murphy has gone temporarily to Mill to relieve Mr. Sochon. who has been transferred to the Third Division. Mr. G. T. Bates, Manager of Messrs, the Borneo Co., Ltd., arrived from furlough by the same boat. We understand that Mr. P. Cobbold, who has been acting for Mr. Bates during his absence, will shortly go to Sibu. Mr. K. H. Digby, passed cadet, has been transferred to Simanggang. Mr. Digby relieved Mr. Griffin, who has been appointed to do duty in Kuching. The stamps of Sarawak have been rather to the fore lately, since they have been dealt with at length by "L. B. R." in two successive issues of the Stamp Lover, the cover of the November number bearing a reproduction of Sir Francis Grant's celebrated portrait of the first Rajah. In the December number a full history of the development of the postal services of Sarawak is given, together with photographs of various post-offices and stamp issues, and a list of successive holders of the office of Postmaster-General. In Sarawak and Her stamps, by Messrs. G. E. Hansford and N. A. Noble, (the Times Press, Ryde, I.W.) the authors have made a most exhaustive study of the philatelic history of Sarawak, and of the position to-day. This book can be confidently recommended not only to philatelists, but also to anyone interested in Sarawak history. The accuracy of the information it contains is a tribute both to the authors’ enthusiasm and powers of research, and the subject-matter is of more than purely specialised interest. The authors have presented a copy of their book to His Highness the Rajah, and we understand that at the request of the Private Secretary to His Late Majesty King George V, who was a noted philatelist, a copy was sent to Buckingham Palace. His many friends will be interested to learn that P. Ratnavelu Odayar, an old pupil of the local St. Joseph’s Institution, and son of Mr. V. Pakiry Odayar, formerly of the Public Works Department, Kuching, who had been qualifying himself in India for Agriculture and other alied subjects, has recently lieen selected out of about a hundred applicants and appointed as a Farm Manager in an estate in South India. Mr. H. P. K. Jacks, who arrived in Kuching on February 3rd, has been appointed a cadet in the Civil Service. Mr. Jacks is at present doing duty at Bau. We print elsewhere in this issue an article on “Shorts for Women” taken from the Straits Times. This article is so very much to the point that we reproduce it in full, and we hope that it will be taken to heart- by our lady readers. Captain A. C. Benfield who returned to Kuching from furlough on February 10th. is now again in command of s.s. Vyner Brooke. Captain Borton has gone on home leave. King’s Message to the Empire. From the British Official Press—1st March, 1936. The King's broadcast speech to the Empire was delivered this afternoon in the following terms :— "It has been an ancient tradition of the British Monarchy that a new Sovereign should send a written message to his peoples. Science has made it possible for me to make that written message more personal and to speak to you all over the radio. This, however, is no innovation, for my father has for the last few years spoken to his peoples at Christmas time. Little more than two mouths ago he broadcast his last Christmas message, and to many of you the sound of his voice must still seem to be ringing in your ears. He was speaking then at the close of a long and wonderful reign which covered a period of twenty-five years, during which unprecedented changes have taken place and great anxieties and problems have been shared by all. Throughout his reign he set a high example of constant devotion to duty and he was ever concerned for the welfare of his subjects and of all those under his protection. In times of adversity his calm confidence was an inspiration to all his people and he shared in their joys as well as in their sorrows. I know how in the Dominions, in India, in the Colonics and Dependencies the bond of loyalty to the Crown—that symbol of unity of many lands and populations—has been strengthened by a tie of personal devotion to my father. I feel that his death is not only an overwhelming grief to my mother and to us, his children, but that it is at the same time also a personal loss to you all. To the Princes and peoples of India I send my greeting as King-Emperor. Manifestations of your sorrow and of your loyalty at this time have been a source of deep gratification to me. Associations in peace and hi war between the British and Indian peoples have been long and honourable and the example set by Queen Victoria, King Edward the Seventh and King George the Fifth lays on me as their successor a solemn trust to maintain and strengthen these associations. Queen Mary, my family and myself have been greatly helped by world-wide tributes of genuine sorrow which we have received from every side. Vast crowds assembled reverently at the funeral homage to the late King's memory, and written words of sympathy by thousands of people, not only those resident within the British Empire but in many foreign countries as well, is a thing that we will never forget. It is wonderful for us to know how universally my father's great qualities have been appreciated and valued. It is no mere form of speech to say that he reigned in the hearts of his people. Aud it was his happiness to know before he died that his long years of unstinted service were rewarded by a devotion and an affection so perfectly expressed in the Jubilee demonstrations of last year. It falls upon me to succeed him and to carry on his work. I am better known to most of yon as the Prince of Wales, as the man who during the war and since has had the opportunity of getting to know people of nearly every country of the world under all conditions and circumstances. And although I now speak to you as the King, I am still that same man who has that experience, and whose constant effort it will be to continue to promote the well-being of his fellow men. May the future bring peace and understanding throughout the world, prosperity and happiness to the British people, ami may we be worthy of the heritage which is ours." Message of Sympathy from Their Highnesses the Rajah and Ranee to Her Majesty the Queen. The following letter was addressed by Her Highness the Ranee to Her Majesty the Queen on January 27th: — MADAM, 1 have only just returned from Sarawak by air, and the Rajah has cabled me asking me to express our deep sympathy. Thanks to the wonderful medium of the films, our people in Sarawak have been able to learn what the devotion of a whole nation to the most beloved Sovereign who has ever reigned means. May I express to Your Majesty from myself and die Rajah, our Government officers, and the people of Sarawak, sincere sympathy with Your Majesty in your great loss. I remain, Your Majesty's humble and loyal tenant, SYLVIA OF SARAWAK. On January 30th, Her Highness the Ranee received the. following letter from the Countess of Minto. The Countess of Minto is a Lady-in- Waiting, and is one of the oldest friends of Her Majesty the Queen. BUCKINGHAM PALACE. DEAR RANEE, I am commanded by the Queen to thank you for your very kind message of sympathy which Her Majesty greatly appreciates. Please convey to the Rajah, and also to your Government and the people of every class. Her Majesty's thanks for the expression of sorrow on the death of our beloved King. The Queen is glad that the films have enabled the people of Sarawak to follow the last sad ceremonies that have taken place. The devoted messages of loyal sympathy very greatly touch the Queen. Yours sincerely, MARY MINTO. Sarawak Museum. CURATOR'S ANNUAL REPORT. We print below extracts from the 1935 report on the Sarawak Museum, prepared by Mr. E. Banks, the Curator:— EXPEDITIONS. In January, and again in December, I visited Tanjong Sirik and other parts of the Rejang ‘‘delta,” the best place for collecting migrant birds which are sometimes on misty nights attracted to the lighthouse very much as at some better-known European resorts. From the map this area appears to be the delta of the large Rejang River, but the presence on these islands of the same three species of squirrels as on the mainland suggests the river may have carved its present outlets through what was at one-time part of the mainland. In July I spent a fortnight on top of Mulu, an account of which occurs in the Sarawak Museum Journal. In September a quick trip was made to Penrissen, a mountain in the head-waters of the Sarawak River, where it was once supposed a health resort could be made, the prospect being reviewed by the late Mr. J. C. Moulton in the Sarawak Gazette for 1910. The top, some 4,401) feet high, was clothed in large trees and dense jungle, the ground sloping gently with occasional shallow gullies holding water, the whole plateau some half a mile long and not more than two hundred yards’ broad ns I paced it. This gives an area from 30 to 40 acres and a few hundred feet lower is a smaller plateau, between 2,000 and 3,000 feet another plateau again about the same area as the top one. Penrissen is therefore a series of flat steps up to 30 or 40 acres in extent and offers no one considerable area for development. ZOOLOGY. A bull and a cow "Tembadau" (Bos Banteng), the Bornean Wild Ox, shot by the Curator near Belaga in 1927, were very kindly mounted for us by the Rafiles Museum. They are the largest acquisition we have had for many years, and of the more interest as there are few mounted examples in other Museums. In good times the purchase of coloured plaster easts of whales will be worth considering; we have a skeleton of the Killer Whale (Orca gladiator) and the Rhorqual Whale (Balaenoptera Schlegeli) from 20-25 feet long, coloured plaster easts of which would cost from £50 to £60, half of which is payable by an exchange of specimens. The sale of wild animals is everywhere becoming increasingly restricted save when destined to well-known Zoological Gardens or Institutions, and there is some evidence we are perhaps being too “easy” in exporting live animals. There is an increasing demand for live Wawas (Gibbons) which could once he purchased from $1 to $5 each in Kuching, and now cost anything from $15 to $25. which indicates Sarawak is one of the last unstopped sources of supply for these animals. I have to recommend the export fee be raised from $1 to $5 each for Wawas to prevent the idle trade in them, but to leave accredited institutions the opportunity to purchase them if desired. A few Fire Back Pheasants worth a dollar or two each are exported every year, but there have been some attempts in outstations to export Bulwer's pheasants, worth from $40 to $80 each, on permits lor Fire Baek pheasants, and efforts to prevent this have not always been successful. Birds. The British Museum very generously divided up the Sarawak birds collected by the Oxford expedition to Dulit in 1932, and the following good things were added to our collection: Caleoperdix oculea borneensis, a mountain partridge new to our collection; Cyanoptila bella and Stoparola thalassina, unusual migrants; Herizillas magnirostrix, Stachyris poliocephala, and the two spider hunters. Arachnothera juliae and everetti. This year's collecting produced Sterna hirundo longipennis, the Eastern common tern; Ardea einere.a rectiroslris the Eastern grey heron, and Helodramas ochropus, the green sandpiper, all three new to Borneo; Perzana pusilla, a small rail, Spitornis cheela kinabaluensis, a mountain eagle, Cyomis unicolor infuscata, a blue flycatcher, Scicerreus t. trivirgata, and Cettia montana. two little mountain birds from Mulu, were all new to our collections and also to Sarawak, with two exceptions. Other rare additions were Arborophila brunneopectus hyperythra. a tree partridge. Atheonoptera spilocephalus luciae, Dcndrobiastes hyperylhra malayana, Rhinomyias gularis, Stoparola cerviniventris, Lanioturdinus crassus, Brachypteryx erythrogyna, Grneirhla everetti, Pachyeephala hypoxantha and Chlorocharis eniiliac mouKoni, all from Mulu. Acrocephalus orientalis and Locustella certhiola were two unusual reed warblers from Sirik. 1935 proved an exceptionally good collecting year —besides fourteen hundred unusual species, five others new to the collection and three others new to Borneo wore taken. Last year three species new to the collection and one new to Borneo were taken, so that Sarawak is not yet exhausted as a collecting ground. Interest is still maintained in the edible bird'snest industry, and in Baram the close-season and auction of nests enforced by successive administrative officers has resulted both in an increase in the number of nests and a rise in the price obtained. REPTILES. I am indebted to the Secretary for Native Affairs (Mr. F. H. Pollard) and the Datus concerned for access to the daily records of the number of turtle laid for several vears on the. islands of Satang, Tolling Besar and Kechil; the annual laying is subject to great fluctuations, and is worth further investigation. It is hoped soon to move the spirit collections of reptiles, amphibia and fishes at present lodged in inaccessible galleries above the Museum’s top floor to the store room at present occupied by the herbarium. and by collections of mammals' and birds’ skins which will move to the new building. BOTANY. The Natural History Order, which prohibited the collecting of orchids without a permit, has been amended, and they may now be collected by anyone, but in no circumstances may they be afterwards exported. Collections of Ebenaceae, Datiscaceae, Pedaliaeeae and Planiaginaceae were sent to Buitenzorg and a large collection of Myrtaceae was returned named from New York by Dr. E. D. Merrill. A named collection of such insect pests commonly known to attack Sarawak crops was presented to the Agricultural Department. The Senior Agricultural Officer presented a largo quantity of fossil-like objects found in the 12th mile Experimental Gardens. They take the form of long narrow tubes, often with bulb like expansions, the narrow passages extending some distance in the hard matrix, occasionally with animal-like impressions, and similar objects have been obtained at Engkilili and Baram. Mr. Tweedie of Raffles Museum informs me they are of concretionary origin, and not fossils at all. ETHNOLOGY. Some redundant exhibits were stored and the rest re-arranged, but there is still too little space to show them to advantage. Eight flat-topped cases were tilted at a convenient angle, their black reflecting background being replaced by white paper on which it is proposed to stencil English and possibly Jawi labels. The removal of the office and reference library to the new building leaves empty a lower wing of the Museum; this I propose to fill with the insert and other zoological collections from above, reducing all the natural history collection to the ground floor and leaving space above for expansion of the ethnological galleries. We now have over 2,500 exhibits, and anything really new is unusual. Some highly prized Kayan beads from the Rejang River are therefore of interest, especially as their genuineness was attested by tbe people of the Baram River, who gave them the same names and much the same value ns their original owners. They are not striking or beautiful : two Bua Wang Batang Uma are cylindrical beads about half an inch long, and valued at about $15 each, the one dark green with reddish markings, each with a yellowish ring, the other dark bine with pale bluish rings round reddish blotches. Bua Wang Noring and Kalamahit Keding are small spherical beads worth $7 each, both with a black background and very appropriate red and yellow patterns, the former with narrow zigzag markings, the latter with broad diagonal streaks. LIBRARY. The Sarawak Library, which was formerly housed in a small, old. and no longer water-tight building, was removed in December to new premises capable of holding twice as ninny volumes. Visit to Kuching of No. 205 (Flying Boat) Squadron. OFFICIAL RECEPTION FOR AIR COMMODORE S. W. SMITH. The three Royal Air Force flying-boats comprising No. 205 squadron arrived’ at Fending at 11.40 a.m. on February 10th. They were met by H.H.M.Y. Maimuna, which conveyed the officers of the squadron to Kuching. As the Maimuna passed fort Margherita a salute of eleven guns was fired from the fort battery. The Maimuna anchored off Astana and was boarded by the Treasurer, acting for the Government Secretary, who was off duty through illness, and the Resident, First Division. The R.A.F. officers then landed at Astana steps; the Air Commodore inspected a Constabulary guard of honour, which was drawn up on the Astana lawn, and was then met at the Astana porch by His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie. Members of the Council. Negri and certain other officers were waiting on the Astana verandah. Refreshments were handed round, and His Highness the Rajah welcomed the squadron to Kuching, and proposed the success of the Far Eastern flight, wishing the Air Commodore and his officers all good fortune on their cruise, and a safe return. This toast was drunk by all prosent, and the Air Commodore replied in a short speech of thanks. The gathering then dispersed. During the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Daubeny were at home’ at the Residency to a large number of guests, and in the evening His Highness the Rajah gave a dinner at Astana in honour of the squadron's visit. About thirty guests were present. This was followed by a dance at the Sarawak Club. The N.C.O.’s and men were given free seats at the first performance at Sylvia Cinema, by courtesy of His Highness the Rajah, and were later entertained to a dinner at the Government Rest House, Mr. A. G. Taylor and a few other gentlemen acting as hosts. During dinner a programme of music was rendered by the Kuching Military baud. The flying-boats .were due to leave at 7 o'clock on the morning of February 11th, but a few hours earlier a violent storm broke and continued without intermission until nearly 10 a.m., rendering their departure impossible. They therefore took off early on the morning of February 12th, although even then weather conditions were by no means favourable, visibility being poor. with rain and mist and some intermittent thunder. The squadron reached Kudat in safety the same afternoon, however, and went on to Manila the following day. After leaving Tending, Air Commodore Smith addressed the following telegram to the Aide-de- Camp to His Highness the Rajah:— "Will you please convey to His Highness grateful thanks of myself Wing Commander Scott mid all ranks for your hospitality and help the honour received on arrival was much appreciated and I particularly commend the smartness of the guard of honour." His Highness replied as follows: — Your message much appreciated. Please convey to all ranks mv best wishes for a successful flight?' The squadron was commanded by Wing Commander C. I. Scott; apart from the Air Commodore, the remaining officers were Squadron Leader K. B. Lloyd; Squadron Leader G. C. Bladon; Flight- Lieut. G. S. Riccard; Flying-Officer A. G. F. Stewart, and Flying-Officer M. D. Thunder. Singapore Revisited. SOME IMPRESSIONS. lu this part of the world one hears a good deal, one way and another, about Singapore Ear and Singapore Foot, but not very much about Singapore Face, although this is an ailment that is at least as prevalent as the other two. It manifests itself in a number of different ways, but the main symptom is an expression as though a piece of india-rubber were being burnt directly beneath the affected person's nostrils. ('Affected.' incidentally, seems the right word in this context). In the more advanced stages a marked hauteur spreads itself gradually over the sufferer's features until in the end his face becomes a blank mask of arrogance and self-complacency. As I have already indicated, the prognosis of this disease is grave, and there is no real cure except an immediate return to Europe, where the restoration of a sens? of proportion usually has a noticeably beneficial effect. Unexpected retrenchment, too, has been known to work wonders. The incidence of this disease among the European population of Singapore is causing the Public Health authorities serious concern. There was a time, during the worst phase of the depression, when Singapore Eace disappeared almost entirely, but since it seems to thrive on prosperity, it has been steadily on the increase during the past two years, and is now more widespread than ever. If you doubt this, then go and stand in Victoria Square between the hours of four and five in the afternoon, and watch the cars roll by. In each luxurious limousine—and it is of there that the procession largely consists, —there reclines a ‘Tuan Besar,’ (Anglicé, Big Noise,) and you will at once perceive that he has readied an acute stage of the disorder. Bad cases are also to be seen at the Swimming Club, where it will be noticed that women are just as liable to this affliction as men; indeed, it seems to attack them, if anything, with even greater virulence. And it is a mistake to assume that only those who can boast a large salary and many years' residence in the Colony can be attacked: no one is immune, indeed incipient cases can be detected even among junior mercantile assistants, and cadets in the Malayan Civil Service frequently contract the malady before they even step ashore. At first sight Singapore seems to be full of bareheaded. smooth-jowled young Englishmen in highly chromatic shirts who are in a perpetual state of hurry about some business of the first importance. That, at any rate, is the impression one gels in and around Collyer Quay and Baffles Place on any ordinary week-day morning. One meets these busy young men everywhere. They all look alike. — sleek, well dressed, with clipped moustaches and a sort of quiet truculence in their demeanour that makes one step smartly out of their way. They radiate self-confidence, hustle, and the will-to-geton; so much so, in fact, that they are a trifle overwhelming, just at first, to anyone used to the more leisurely ways of the outposts. What do they do all day, these superb young men? Certainly, they do not seem to spend much time in their offices. Are they employed, perhaps, by the Chamber of Commerce to rush around continually with that intense air in order to give strangers a favourable impression of Singapore's business activity? This is certainly one explanation of what otherwise appears an insoluble mystery. Singapore is a gracious city. It is a city of open squares, wide streets, well-kept lawns, and really excellent roads; it has good shops, pleasant places of entertainment, and reasonably good hotels, and can boast a number of amenities which prove that the Municipal authorities really do consider the comfort and convenience of the public. It also possesses a fascinating Chinatown which is like an enlargement of the Chinese bazaars in Sarawak, only more so. Singapore lies almost on the Equator, and is separated from England by nearly half the globe; and yet, in spite of ils population of nearly half a million people of all races, colours, and creeds; in spite, too, of the attentions of globetrotting novelists and sensational film-producers, it remains obstinately what it is, —an English Cathedral town. Although it is the meeting place of the whole East ; although ships from most of the maritime countries of the world crowd its harbour; although one reads in the newspapers of Chinese secret societies, and other sinister goings-on; although its shops are (racked with exotic wares, and its streets filled with strange sounds aud sights, and even stranger smells, yet when one. is in Singapore one is conscious, all tire time, of a curiously English atmosphere. Everything is so clean and neat. A large section of the town itself is dominated by a Gothic Cathedral, and the European residential quarter is strongly reminiscent of a garden suburb, —as, indeed, is the outlook of ils inhabitants. And then, the streets arc so well-ordered, the traffic so well-regulated, and the population apparently so peaceful and law-abiding that one thinks instinctively of a prosperous provincial town at home. The machinery of solid British administration is everywhere in evidence. It is so much in evidence, indeed, that it evokes a pleasant sense of security, coupled with a certain smug and rather insular pride. This, we feel, is not an Eastern town. It is a piece of England, established somehow in the tropics; safe, well-ordered, and respectable. For to-day there can be no question about Singapore's respectability. Indeed, it is a trifle too respectable for the returning visitor, —for one, that is, who remembers with a certain pleasant melancholy the festive evenings of nine or ten years ago. The glory is departed, and with it much innocent fun, and also a lot more fun which was not quite so innocent. And yet it had its place in the life of the town, and added undeniably to its character. Singapore may be respectable now, but it is also dull. Although it is still no doubt possible for the initiated to find the kind of thrills that one usually associates with certain quarters of any large Eastern seaport, they are no longer apparent to a casual visitor. Singapore’s respectability is not really surprising, since il is undoubtedly the most thoroughly policed city in the world. In Singapore, you meet a policeman every twenty yards. Every forty yards, you meet two policemen, and at the corner of each important street you will find a police station, —or so it seems. The lot of a Singapore policeman is by no means an unhappy one. His work cannot be very arduous, since so many of his colleagues are busy helping him to do it, and he lives in barracks which one mistakes at first sight for vast blocks of the most modern luxury flats. He is indeed a fortunate creature, and one wonders what he would say if he were suddenly to find himself on patrol in a Sarawak ulu. Never speak Malay in Singapore. For one thing, the chances are that you will not be understood; for another, if you are. understood, you will at once be rumbled as a country cousin, and will probably be swindled. If, on the other hand, you stick resolutely to English, you may (if you are sufficiently well dressed, or are wearing the wrong kind of topee,) bo mistaken for a tourist; in which case, although you will be swindled just the same, you will at least get Service, —in the expectation of a fat tip. And when in Singapore, never by any chance be polite to Asiatics in subordinate positions. They are there to be shouted at, and don’t you forget it. If you don't shout at them as loud as the other free-born Britons, they will put you down as a freak, and you will be swindled worse than ever. Although English is understood almost everywhere in Singapore, the actual lingua franca is a strange jargon in which the word kasi (pronunced to ryhme with ‘jazzy’) plays rather a disproportionate part. For instance, if a Tuan Besar has agreed to pick up his wife from a friend's house on his way home from the office and drop her at the Swimming Club, he will say to his syce kasi Mem! and that will be the end of it. It will be noted that although this language can convey a wealth of meaning in a very few words, it is a trifle inadequate as a means of artistic expression. Few great prose works have been written in 'Singaporean,' anil no great poetry. Although there is, of course, that famous quatrain, usually sung to a well-known hymn tune, which begins—Lima ringgit l'ada chukup .... There is another excellent reason for not speaking Malay in Singapore and that is the almost complete absence of Malays. Europeans, Eurasians, Chinese, Tamils, Bengalis, Sikhs, —the streets are thick with them, but the Malay is a rara axis. When you do meet a Malay, he is usually a hired-car driver. And here let me put in a word of praise for that most excellent institution, the Yellow Cab Company. I had better make it clear at once that I have no shares in this or any other company in Singapore, and so have no axe io grind. I am not giving the firm any free publicity,—I am merely putting intending visitors on to a good tiling. These cabs are 8 H.P. Ford Saloons with, as their name implies, a brilliant yellow top. They are almost as cheap as rickshaws, they are clean and comfortable, and they are driven by Malays who are not only courteous and helpful, but who actually know the geography of Singapore! Believe it or not, when you tell them their destination, they will take you there : odd though it may sound, they only have to be told once. And the Company's 'no tip’ rule is scrupulously observed. You will never be asked for a tip. and if. pleased by real courtesy and service, you offer the driver one, it will as often as not be refused. The other hired cars are mostly driven by Indians who are completely ignorant of any language but Hindustani, and whose knowledge of Singapore is such that if you ask them to go to John Tattle’s, they will as likely as not take yon to the Tanglin Club. And if you remonstrate, they at once become threatening,—provided, of course, that one of Singapore’s ubiquitous policemen is not within earshot, in which ease they merely drive you at break-neck speed into the heart of Chinatown, resting one hand lightly on the steering wheel and gaily picking their nose with the other, then stall their engine in the middle of a busy street. Whereupon they immediately demand double their legal fare. How these men obtain their licences is a a mystery. The Malay drivers have an explanation which certainly fits the facts, but since there is a law of libel, I cannot repeat it. Tn most countries a taxi-driver, before he can get a licence, is expected to have some slight knowledge of the geography of the city in which he plies, and nt least a nodding acquaintance with the language spoken in that city. But not in Singapore, apparently. However, let us take a Yellow Cab and drive to the Swimming Club. This is one of the most delightful spots in the whole town. I know of few things more pleasant on a fine morning than to sit at a table by the edge of the swimming pool clad only in a bathing suit, with a tankard of draught beer in front of you. and a pleasant companion by your side. Out to sen, ships come and go: a cool breeze blows, the sea itself laps lazily nt the shore with a most restful sighing, and the clear blue water in the pool invites you to no in just once more before tiffin. It is very pleasant to sit hack, light another cigarette, and think pityingly of your friends working hard in their offices, or else being eaten alive by sand-flies up-river. Here is civilization, peace, and real enjoyment. You have one final splash in the sparkling blue water, finish your beer, change, and drive off for cocktails and luncheon at Baffles Grill. But the Swimming Club is no more. They are pulling it down to make Way for a soulless thing of glass, concrete and steel. The old club with its rambling building, its long chairs, its well-thumbed periodicals, its dingy bar, its cheerful Hylam boys, had atmosphere. It had character. It was really a club, a shabby, comfortable, matey place with no frills. Now, however, a cross, between a sanatorium and a futurist road-house is arising at Katong, —an abortion with no relation to its surroundings, and no air of friendly welcome. One need not be a reactionary to deplore the vulgarisation of what was once such a pleasant institution, and one so typical of Singapore. But at least the swimming pool will remain, and that is something. It must be one of the finest in the world. A stay in Singapore produces a kaleidoscopic pattern of memories. Incidents stand out for a moment defined in the sharpest colours, then merge into a jumble of general impressions. Raffles at night, for instance, its ballroom crowded with smartly-dressed women and their dapper escorts, presents a picture of Western luxury and ease which is in strange contrast to the busy life of the streets on each side of it. And it is in even stranger contrast, perhaps to that other picture, obtained somewhere near Tanjong Pagar, of a down-at-heel European, unshaven and unkempt, voraciously wolfing ten cents’ worth of food at a street hawker's stall. Night falls gently in Singapore, and it is pleasant to drive through the streets in the short tropical dusk. They are filled with people taking the air after the labours of the day, and one is again conscious of the intensely cosmopolitan life around one. The pavements are a medley of palm beach suits, cotton dhotis, white duck, and gaily coloured sarongs, and in the crowd Malay songkok bob up and down beside topees, turbans. felt hats snd bright Javanese head-cloths. Expensive cars roll smoothly by. driven by liveried syces; mosquito buses rattle past, rickshaws thread their way noisily between the traffic, and an occasional bullock-cart jogs slowly homeward, a symbol of the unchanging Rast. As dusk deepens into darkness, neon signs flash into life, giving the town a strangely sophisticated air. The harbour is starred by a thousand twinkling points of light, and along Beach Road the sound of the surf lapping the shore is just perceptible. Yes. this is the best part of the day in Singapore, restful, cool and refreshing. One ends one's drive with a regret that is tempered by the taste of the first stengah of the evening,— always the best of the whole day. With the prospect of an excellent dinner and an amusing party to follow. Singapore seems a better place than ever.—N.E.H.- Women In Shorts. WHAT THE MALAYS SAY—AND IN THE TOWNS—A HORROR IN RAFFLES PLACE. What a lot of trouble the vogue of shorts for women has caused in Malaya! Shorts are far and away the best things to be worn at certain times, but the trouble is that women in this country so often wear them at very much the wrong time. It should be obvious that in an Eastern country, where the sarong and kabaya, the Indian sari, the old-style nonya's costume, and, until recently, voluminous European dresses and petticoats in heavy fabrics, have been the only feminine attire, the wearing of shorts was bound to cause amazement Nevertheless, one does sec flagrant instances of this costume being worn at inappropriate times and places, and this article is intended to suggest when and when not to sport them. "TUB SHAMELESS ONES.” First and foremost, never wear shorts if you are going sightseeing in a Malay district and arc likely to enter a kampong. Women who do this dreadful thing are usually ignorant of the Malay language, and so cannot understand the truly awful things that are said of them as they pass. Shorts on women really do shock these very pleasant country folk, and I have often seen small Malay children' pulled sharply out of the way of the "shameless ones” who come "through our village half-dressed like a man.” If only the European visitors in shorts knew or understood half the utter contempt in the hearts of the quiet, well-behaved people round them, they would rush from the village covered with shame. KAMPONG ETIQUETTE. One must never forget that in Malaya the people of the country have perhaps the best manners in the world, and unless you really know them well, and their outlook, you cannot understand what a quite but overwhelming contempt they have in their hearts for the bad-mannered or vulgar. Surely, therefore, it is wrong to go info their bouses and villages dressed in a way they dislike so much. No doubt ignorance is at the bottom of a great deal of this, but we can all learn, and if we women of an alien race, who until now have been looked up to, wish to keep that position, it would be well for us to ask a few questions from those who know. AN AWFUL SPECTACLE. Next 1 should like to utter a warning against the wearing of shorts whenever they are likely to cause—not disgust, as in the case of the kampong Malays, but ridicule among the more sophisticated people of the towns. Not long ago 1 was waiting outside John Little's for my car to come round, when I happened to see the newspaper sellers and a crowd of boys and men all smiling; 1 also heard the word "Gilah" (mad). When I looked round to see the cause of all this, I was horrified to see a woman of my own nationality, not in her first youth, in a very short pair of bright blue shorts, with a sort of sailor blouse, and a little pair of socks with stripes going round them, coining out of a shop. No wonder the men were laughing—I nearly cried myself. Why in the name of all that is horrible did that woman want to wear shorts to shop in? SYLPHS ONLY. 1 should also like to put in a plea against the wearing of shorts by the over-fat or the over-thin. 1 am certain that though their friends may tell them: "My dear, you look too sweet in them, so original,” if they only heard what those same friends said a few moments later, whilst watching them play, they would turn all colours of the rainbow. . , In a country like this, filled as it is with so many different races, it is certainly up to women of all races not to let their own particular nation down Though it may seem a small matter, if you make yourself a figure of fun you do most certainly harm the prestige of your own race, or, worse still, get all the men in the streets smiling behind their hands. BE CARBFUL! 1 can only ask those of my readers who do care about keeping up the prestige of the country they represent, to think a little more carefully how they wear these useful garments. On the sports field, for tennis, or any outdoor game, nothing could be better, but even there for the Lord's sake have them decently cut. and not bulging all over the wrong places. Please don’t think I have any personal grouse about shorts myself. I haven’t, so long as they hang well, and the right people wear them at the right time. But 1 have been asked by a number of people to put my views—and their views—before the public, and to the best of my ability I have tried to do so.—Straits Budget. “Sold Into Slavery.” THROWN AWAY TO DIE.” FATE OF UNWANTED CHILDREN IN BORNEO. A passage from the last issue of The Borneo Chronicle has been brought to our notice. The Borneo Chronicle is, of course, the official organ of the Borneo Mission Association, which operates in connection with the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel. The passage in question, which appears in the course of a letter to children signed by "Father Wilfrid.’' runs as follows :— "My dear boys and girls, In another pari of this month's Chronicle you will find something about missionary boxes, and on this page you see the new picture of 'Unwanted Children’ which is now on the Borneo missionary boxes. Just imagine how awful it would be if your fathers and mothers id not want you, and so gave you away to anyone who would take you, or sold you to become slaves, or even just threw you away to die as soon as you were born. And yet that is what some of the Chinese do with their unwanted girl babies, and remember that there are a great number of Chinese in Borneo." Shivery, of course, does not exist in Sarawak, and infanticide is almost unknown among the Chinese in Sarawak,—as. indeed, it is among all other races. Moreover, the rights of women and children in Sarawak arc very carefully safeguarded both by law and custom, and their condition generally gives little cause for concern. It therefore seems unfortunate that the official organ of an old-established Mission should publish statements which are, to say the least of it, misleading, and which cannot but tend to create a false impression of conditions in the country in which that Mission operates. Racecourse Development Fund. LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. KUCHING, 14TII FEBRUARY, 1936. The Editor, _ Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR, I enclose herewith further lists showing actual collections towards the Racecourse Development Fund, and shall be obliged if you will publish same in the next issue of the Sarawak Gazette. I am, Sir, Your obedient servant, R. L. DAUBENY, Acting Resident, First Division. Films of the Month. FEBRUARY. Dickens, as a critic in a weekly review recently remarked, was a literary engine of genius, which, when over-driven, produced from its exhaust large quantities of balderdash. This consists chiefly of appallingly self-conscious purple patches and passages of maudlin sentimentality which, on occasion, can reach truly sublime levels of drivel. The balderdash, though, is most noticeable in his early work, which fortunately does not include David Copperfield, the novel from which Metro- Goldwyn Mayer made the most-boomed picture of 1935. In David Copperfield genius predominates to such an extent that in spite of its faults (and they are many) it remain the finest novel in the English language. Yet all the same, the balderdash is there, subdued, certainly, by Dickens’ more mature artistry, but more the less present. An unimaginative producer with both eyes fixed on the box-office might easily have concentrated on the pinchbeck instead of the gold, and produced a travesty of Dickens' masterpiece, which though artistically a mess, would none the less have had an enormous popular appeal. For unfortunately there can be no mistake about the popular appeal of the worst and most tawdry aspects of Dicken's,—what Maupassant described as cettc sentimentalité béte de I’ouvrier is a force to be reckoned with in the entertainment world. The Directors of the film of David Copperfield, however, have not made this mistake. If unnecessary emphasis seemed at times to be laid on the sentimental passages, it is because these passages are essential to the development of the story. In the book they are so interwoven with the fabric of the plot that they assume their correct perspective, but in a film version they become unduly prominent, and this in turn cannot but react unfavourably on the screen play's artistic proportion. The film of David Copperfield was a brave attempt to perform the impossible. The 600 odd pages of Dickens’ novel (it would be called a 'saga' to-day) just cannot be compressed into two hours on the screen. Although the film was remarkably faithful to the book, it showed us only the hare bones of the story, and by necessarily omitting all Dickens' delicate counterpoint it lost much of the atmosphere that is so truly a feature of the novel. In America, David Copperfield was rated the best film of 1935. This it is not, but it can he placed in the very front rank owing to really firstrate production and acting. And it was truly a miracle of casting. Even- character was right; Micawber. Betsy Trotwood, Peggotty, Uriah Heep and Mr. Murdstone, all the characters with whom we have been familiar since childhood lived again when we saw them on the screen. In a cast which was uniformly excellent it is difficult to single out any individual actor for special praise, but a note must he made of the acting of W. C. Fields. Numerous critics rate this splendid artist as the finest comedian on the screen to-day, and his performance as Micawber confirms their verdict, tubers who were particularly good were Roland Young as Uriah Heep and Lionel Barrymore as Dan Peggotty, and it was a pleasant surprise to find the part of David, the boy, taken by Freddie Bartholomew, and not by some humptions and freckled brat with a biting Chicago twang. It has been announced, incidentally, that a film is to be made of The Tale of Two Cities: this is all to the good, but when will film companies discover Great Expectations ? This is considered by some to be the greatest of all Dickens' novels, and it is certainly one which lends itself particularly well for adaptation to the screen. Several years ago it was discovered that Paul Robeson, besides being an extremely competent actor, had a voice. His deep bass, already familiar to the few from records of Negro spirituals, was made known to the many by the Show Boat. Since then, it has become axiomatic with film producers that Robeson must always bring his music, so to speak, when he arrives on the set. No matter what part he is taking, it is essential for for him to stand up and sing before the last curtain falls. This accounts for the introduction of what was suspiciously like a theme song into Sanders of the River. This song, though pleasant to listen to. rather destroyed the illusion, since from what we hear African chieftains do not, as a rule, sing in metrical and melodious English when proceeding on the war-path. It would have been far more effective to have allowed Paul Robeson to taken an individual part in the savage chanting of the genuine Africans. Sanders of the River, though, was an outstandingly good film, well-acted and well produced. The photography, too, was excellent, some of the river scenes being very impressive. We should have liked to have seen something more of Bones,—‘The Lord Tibbetti' was conspicuous most of the time by his absence, and never approached the gay, maddening, and yet loveable creature so understandingly portrayed by Edgar Wallace. Paul Robeson gave a splendid performance as Bosambo, and Leslie Banks was the exact incarnation of Sanders. Gold Diggers of 1985, featuring Adolphe Menjou. Dick Powell and Alice Brady, was a gay musical show put on with the extreme slickness and efficiency that we have come to expect from productions of this nature. Although it suffered from the typically American fault of exaggeration—one or two of the musical numbers were almost, unbearably prolonged—it was all the same very good entertainment. The prize for the best individual performance of the month goes to Edward G. Robinson for his remarkable, study of Damon Wells in The Man With Two Faces. This was a film which, though not particularly strong in the plot, was rendered genuinely impressive by Robinson's superb acting. He has since earned the unstinted praise of all film critics for his acting in Passport to Fame, in which he stars. No wonder. We can only hope that this picture will soon come to Kuching. Sylvia Cinema. Mainly About Nothing. PSYCHOTHERAPY IN SARAWAK. A writer in a recent issue of Life comments on the startling progress achieved by the science of psychotherapy in the last few years. Nowadays, he says, almost everybody has a phobia or two; certainly, everybody can. All you have to do is to be mortally afraid of something, look it up in an English-Latin dictionary, put it more or less in the ablative case, then tack ‘phobia' on the end. and there you arc. The following are some of the more notable phobias discovered by the All-American Congress of Viennese Brain Watchmen during 1935 : Causutaphobia.—The fear of slight, unimportant occasions. Effossophohia.—The fear of being eaten by crows. Pausayhobia.—The fear, on a train, that the engineer will die. Centimanophobia.—The fear of having a hundred hands. Excoctophobia.—The fear of being boiled away, or evaporated. Pinetophobia.—The fear that trees in an orchard or pine forest have not been planted in rows. Vacuophobiu.—The fear of Sunday, empty ballrooms, etc. Quaquaversophobia.—The fear of not having an excuse to be the first to leave. Philomelaphobia. -The fear of invisible birds. Of all these, the last is by far the most terrifying. It is difficult to imagine anything more harrowing than having to live in an imaginary world filled with the flutter of many millions of invisible wings, and noisy with the twitterings of a vast multitude of unseen bird-throats. The fear of a gentle caress on the back of the neck from a ghostly pinion is one that has caused sufferers from this most distressing mental ailment to rise and leave parties without warning, and my Aunt Carrie informs me that a stockbroker of her acquaintance was once carried screaming from Leadenhall Street on account of a sudden attack of this phobia. It appears that he was wearing a was perfectly clear, the dread of invisible pigeons was too much for him. With the aid of a rather inadequate Latin dietionary. I have prepared a short statement of some of the more important phobias to which persons who live in Sarawak are peculiarly liable. Is yours on the list? Collybophobia.—The fear of bankers. Aestuariophobia.—The fear, when up-river, of being suddenly called down-river. Summaftuminephobia.—The fear, when downriver. of having to go up-river. Porcocluncphobia.— The fear of hogs’ rumps. Vinophobia.—The fear of running out of claret. Phasianophobia.—The fear of Fire-back pheasants. Voragnephobia.—The fear, when shooting a rapid, that the steersman of the boat has been left behind drunk at the last Dayak house. Hispanophobia.—The fear of talking Spanish too fast. Icthyophobia.—The fear of finding fish in the pockets of one's trousers. Plebeiophobia.—The fear of being forced to share one's house with someone who has not been to a public school. Caseophobia.—The fear of large cheeses. Alibiphobia.—The fear that one is not in Sarawak at all, but in Singapore, or Paris. Limacephobia.—The fear of small, dead slugs. You may suffer from any or all of these ills in Sarawak, but even if you have the whole bunch, there comes always that glorious moment when, as you hop into bed and draw the mosquito curtains, you know for certain that you are safe, for the time being, from the unwelcome attentions of invisible birds. If thc anopheles mosquito has done nothing else*, he has at least done that. PRECIOUS SMILES. Fashionable New York dentists now use gold fillings with tiny stones of brilliant inset on the top of the tooth. The innovation is being jointly advertised by dentists and jewellers. New York society has fully accepted it, and the "brilliant" smile has become frequent.—Sunday Dispatch. Mrs. Wilbur J. Botts, who stands high in New York's social register, lias had three of her front teeth removed and replaced by square-cut emeralds, states a well-known American gossip-writer Her arrival at a party is now heralded by Hashes of green fire, which scintillate around her whenever she laughs or talks; and since she is laughing or talking pretty well all the time, the result is apt to be a trifle overpowering. Mrs. Hutts, however, has since been outdone by a certain Miss Evelyn Van Pippen, who has had her tongue bored as though for earings, and who now sports a superb collection of cats-eyes, opals, chalcedonies, sapphires and amethysts on the end of it. The only trouble is that she can neither eat in the ordinary way. nor speak, but a correspondent informs me that she is rapidly becoming proficient in the deaf and dumb alphabet, and is making arrangements to receive nourishment through a tube. It is considered merely a question of time before the smartest New York women will be wearing wooden platters let into their lips in the manner of certain West African belles. TIGHT SPOT. When I am tight I sometimes fight, I seldom read, I never write. Most often I just sit and think And pour myself another drink. —E. P.—in Life. WITHOUT COMMENT. A man was charged nt Sheffield Police Court yesterday with using obscene language to a clockwork mouse which refused to perform on the pavement.— Manchester Guardian. *He has done a lot.—ED. First Division News. JANUARY. Fifty-seven civil and sixty-eight criminal cases came before the Kuching Courts during January. Of the hitter, twenty-two were for breaches of Municipal bye-laws. At an inquest into the death of a Chinese, named Chong Ah Ann, who was run over and killed by a lorry, a verdict of accidental death duo to negligence on the part of the lorry driver was recorded. The lorry driver was subsequently charged with "Causing death by a rash act" under section 301A of the Sarawak Penal Code, found guilty, and fined $50. Compensation to the value of $200 was awarded to the widow of deceased. The Assistant District Officer, Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, proceeded to Lundu by m.l. Betty on January 28th, and was still away at the end of the month. The man who was found wandering along the coast in the vicinity of Telok Sarabang during December has now been identified. While under observation in the General Hospital, he was recognized as a son of Amat bin Merah of Kampong Main. Kuching. According to the latter, his son left Kuching nine years ago intending to sail to Miri. While off Kuala Baram, the boat was wrecked, and it was then thought there were no survivors. Inquiries have, however, failed to elicit any information as to the son's whereabouts and mode of existence since his original departure from Kuching. Seventy logs of kruik wood were shipped from Lundu to Kuching during the month. The District Officer, Serian and Samarahan, reports that Kampong Lobang Batu lost their share Sunong Belabor as they failed to arrive on the day appointed for gathering. The nests were brought to Seriab by the Native Officer and people from Kampong Semabang, and sent for miction to Kuching, where a very much better price was obtained than any offers made locally. During the District Officer’s visit to the Ulu Sadong this month he tried to persuade the owners of birdsnests' caves to bring the nests to him, and told them that he would have them auctioned in Kuching and obtain better prices for them. All owners of caves in the Ulu Sadong have large debts to Chinese traders at Serian. who give them low prices and exchange provisions for the nests. Two band Dayaks were fined according to Land Dayak custom for taking on a second wife before divorcing the first. Kampong Mentu had a land dispute with Kampong Lobang Batu in which Lobang Batu people were found to be preparing to farm this year in Mentu land. The harvest of 1935 failed badly in the Ulu Sadong, with the result that all Kampongs except Temong and Koran have been living on krebang and bandong for some months. The Dayaks, however, have taken a stoic view of the failure of the rice crop, and no complaints or requests for Government assistance have been received. The fruit season, however, has again been fairly good in parts. The padi all over the Serian district is very good, and in the Ulu Sadong will be ready for harvesting during February. At Mentong, Mayang and Mentu the Dayaks have a system of irrigation : the low-lying land is flooded a month after they have planted out their padi by partly damming up the small streams traversing that land. They thereby turn empran hind into swamp, but nt the same time keep a stream of fresh water running through their farm. This flooding obviates the necessity of weeding, and it has been noticed that the padi in these three districts is really excellent. Some of the Serian traders have started to erect their shophouses in the new bazaar. The Kuching- Simanggang Road on the Kuching side of the Samarahan bridge has recently been very bad, and at the end of the month there was no rice, kerosene oil. tobacco or salt left in the bazaar. From the Samarahan to Serian the road is passable, and so some traders have been having their stores sent by boat from Kuching through Loba Blat to the Samarahan, and then brought from there by lorry. No motor cars have been able to get through for six weeks. The District Officer, Serian and Sadong, reports as follows on a tour of part of bis district : "I visited Tebekang on 15th—16th and the Ulu Sadong, right and left-hand branches, from 17th to 30th during which time every kampong (36) and Chinese settlement was visited with the exception of Kampongs Dalia, Angkroh, Tcmah and Taup. At every kampong the inhabitants were informed about the tapping holiday and the new tuba fishing order, and I again explained to them how they are gradually forgetting their old customs through lack of competent bead of district. Fines for divorce, adultery and various tabus vary in different kampongs, and there are very few of the 114 Orang Kayas, Pengarahs, and Penglimas who really know their own adat. The anak buah admit very little authority of the Orang Kayas, who arc content to have their orders disobeyed rather than ask the Native Officer or District Officer to see them enforced. “I was surprised, however, to find that all kampongs had been cleaned up just before my arrival, and the policy of trying to get the Dayaks to take some pride in their villages and get a spirit of competition amongst them seems to have met with more success than I had anticipated. Kampongs Sungan, Bengali, Kntebu and eight doors of Sejijak were fined $1 a door as they had made no attempt to rebuild their houses or repair them as ordered last August. These small fines, I am sure, will have the desired effect of making them realize (as I told them last August) that their district is going to be travelled every three and six months by the Native Officer and District Officer respectively. 1 hope that in a few months, if the election of an Orang Kaya Temonggong of each district is later approved, the present chaotic state of affairs in the Ulu Sadong will be straightened out. ‘The Orang Kaya of Pichin and Krosen accompanied me on the whole tour.” Two inquests were held at Bau during January, and in both cases verdicts of death by misadventure were returned. The District Officer, Hau, states that two cases of attempted arson were reported during January at Siniawun. The first attempt was on the house of Chop "Nam Fah," a former Paku trader, in whose house the Paku, fire began. The second was made on a house next to that occupied by ex-Paku traders. The Siniawan Chinese community are somewhat alarmed, and every effort is being made to prevent further outbreaks, and to trace the criminals rcsponsible for the previous efforts. Anti-malarial work at Bau continues. A survey was conducted by Sanitary Inspector Brodie, and certain actions recommended in his report have been noted for attention early in February. The Principal Medical Officer paid two visits to the district during the month. Three hundred and twenty-one persons were treated in the Bau Dispensary and Hospital during the month. Seventy-six injections were given, chiefly for yaws. The question of the land dispute between the Senah Dayaks and the Dutch Dayaks was again brought up during a recent visit on the part of the District Officer to the Left Hand Branch. The Orang Kaya was informed that the matter had been referred to the Resident, First Division, and that no action could be taken pending instructions. Orang Kaya Japar expressed his intention of appealing against a land decision given in September last, and was informed that it was too late to appeal. All chiefs are being informed of the tuba fishing regulations and tapping holiday dates as and when an opportunity occurs. The padi harvest in Upper Sarawak promises to be fair. Dahan Rubber Estate harvested 27,000 lbs. dry rubber during January. Rainfall at Bau was 11.92 inches, and at Dalian 15.8 inches. Trade conditions at Siniawan were investigated during the month, and it was found that gold played a very minor part in the life of the trading community as a whole, rubber being the mainstay of the area. Numerous applications for robber dealers’ licences were received; applicants were informed that no new issues would be recommended for the present. The District Officer, Bau. accompanied by the Native Officer and Dresser, visited the Left Hand Branch during the month, proceeding as far as Senah Negri. The output of gold for December from the Upper Sarawak mines was 2,133,666 ozs., slightly below the November figure. The price remained steady. The following table gives the individual output of gold from the various mines for December :— Tennis. MIXED DOUBLES CHAMPIONSHIP. Semi-final.—Mrs. Kelley and Kitto beat Dayang Valerie and Benson 6—3, 6—4. Mrs. Pitt-Hardacre and Mitchell to play Mrs. Kelley and Kitto in the final. All golf and tennis players are reminded that there will be a meeting at the Club on 12th March to discuss proposed improvements to the golf-course and the tennis courts. Badminton. MIXED DOUBLES. First Round.—Mrs. Kelley and Harding beat Mrs. Daubeny and W. J. Chater. Mrs. Pollard and Birt beat Dayang Valerie and Daubeny. Mrs. Gibson and Calvert beat Mrs. Pitt- Hardacre and Pollard. Second Round.—Mrs. Gibson and Calvert beat Mrs. Pollard and Birt. Second Division News. JANUARY. Towards the end of the month a number of counterfeit five-cent pieces dated 1927 were found in circulation in Simanggang bazaar. Four women who were in possession of some of these coins were prosecuted, but discharged. A Chinese who is alleged to have distributed a one-dollar packet of these coin's has absconded and is still at large. A warrant has been issued for his arrest. It is thought that these coins originated in Kuching. 300 out-patients were treated in Simanggang Government dispensary during January, and 182 N.A.B. injections were administered. Mr. Dare. Senior Agricultural Officer, arrived at Simanggang on January 15th, and on the 18th, accompanied by the Resident, he visited Tabarong Skrang, where the four Government subsidised pepper gardens were inspected. At Enteban arrangements were made for preparing a demonstration vegetable garden for Dayaks. Mr. Dare returned to Kuching on the 21st. On January 16th M.L. Santosa arrived at Simanggang, having been chartered by Government for three months in order to replace M.L. Rentis, which is being repaired at Brooke Dock. Owing to rise in price of jelutong a large number of permits were taken out in Simanggang and Lingga during the month. The District Officer, Saribas, reports that as a result of the report of rebel activities in the Ulu Spok, Penghulus Igoh and Mandal Chaing were called to Betong on the 7th. These two, accompanied by a squad of Constabulary, proceeded up river to call down Tuai Rumah and others suspected of harbouring rebels; the party returned on the 12th and proceeded to Simanggang the. folllowing day. It is understood that the enquiry is still adjourned. It was considered advisable to cease issuing rice on loan to distressed Dayak, and the balance of over a hundred sacks was sold for cash. Reports were received from Udau Paku of a serious epidemic, five deaths having occurred in one house during the monh. The Drawer twice visited Udau and reported an epidemic of influenza, death in all cases being due to bronchial pneumonia. Free treatment was given to affected persons, and preventive medicines were issued to all Dayaks in the vicinity. Reports on this year's padi in the Betong district continue to be satisfactory, and in many parts the harvest is expected to commence early in March. Pengarah Nyalu and Penghulu Undum visited Baratok during January. The opportunity was taken to discuss various points of Dayak adat. The Native Officer, Engkilili. reports with regret the death, which took place on January 11th, of Tay Kai Hiang, Capitan China of Engkilili. His funeral was attended by a large number of people including the Government staff and the Capitan China of Simanggang. Simanggang Notes. Youth, 'tis said, must be served—but why, oh why, should it always want the first helping? Well, well, "gather ye roses while ye may” for the hours "Pereunt et Imputantur.” Having got under weigh with this brilliant (and, I believe, original) aphorism, let us "once more into the breach, dear friends." The sluggish slothfulness induced by Christmas and New Year fare having more or less faded into the limbo of time, Simanggang, indeed most of the Batang Lupar population, bestirred itself to enjoy a Regatta chiefly remarkable for its lack of incident. The banks of the river from below the old Fort right round to Kampong Lemanak were lined with bangkongs and racing-boats of all sizes and descriptions, including one hermaphroditic excrescence. Belalang Munggu by name, which was neither one nor the other, and yet a bit of both. Fortunately this boat was never nearer to the winner than the last boat in such races as it participated in, so much acrimonious discussion was saved. The bazaar itself look on the aspect of Piccadilly Cirens on an International Night (Rugby football, of course !), although in all fairness to Simanggang it should be said that there was an infinitely smaller percentage of drunks in the bazaar than is usual at Home—this is the more remarkable when it is known that that heaven-designed and man-made place known as a "bar" was made free to all and sundry. Dayaks who, during the year, had wasted their own time, anil Government officers leisure, by appearing at their houses at any time betwen 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. and heralding their approach with a husky cough and a demand for ngirop. at last had their desires satisfied to the utmost of their capacity, and that, as our American cousins would have it, is "saying some." There bad been a general request tor an oily pig, but the Resident, feeling that an illustrious predecessor had set too high a standard of entertainment by falling into a ditch while endeavouring to break up a fight occasioned by this form of amusement, decided that this should not be Eheu fugaces;—December 1930 wasn't it, oh Optimistic Fiddler? The greasy pole proved no more difficult than usual, but the ducks were of staunch breed. The swift-flowing tide held no terrors for them, and they headed for the further shore with the confidence of a Columbus. Une misguided bird set off for Engkilili, and would without the slightest doubt have reached there, had not a praku gone out and chased it back. To the annoyance and chagrin of the swimmers, as it neared the share, a Malay, dressed in a beautiful blue blazer, creased white trousers, and a panama hat, regardless of his sartorial elegance, leapt into the water and secured the prize. Jupiter Pluvius proved kind—in fact he showed a tact seldom displayed by his satellite, the Clerk of the Weather, for having granted brilliant sunshine during the races, with the approach of evening a gentle shower started that merged into a downpour. No doubt this helped to damp the ardour of the more alcoholically inclined spirits. No description of the Regatta would be complete without some mention of the Travelling Talkies (horrid word!) that were in operation during January. Being only an ordinary soul and no film critic, I am forced to admit that the films, antique and inconsequent as they were, were hugely enjoyed by everyone. The Censor had done his best to make the longer films even more unintelligent and wildly improbable than they were when they left Hollywood icons ago, and to bis credit be it said that he undeniably had succeeded. The star-piece of those shown was the story, in twelve parts, of a circus, and twelve times did the long-suffering audience have to undergo the torture of reading through the names of actors, producers, photographers and those other officials whose names usually appear on the prologue. The incessant chatter, crying of children, and the expectorations and syncopations of several Chinese gentlemen who appeared to be afflicted with St. Vitus' Dance did not help to make an already almost unintelligible talking projector any the better, but in spite of these small drawbacks everyone went hack again and again. The best part of the show happened when the Resident's dogs, also regular attenders, became annoyed with a barking compatriot on the screen, and in their humble way, drew the best laugh of the Regatta, as in 1930 did—but no! that happened in 1980. If. in the cause of entertainment, any small exaggerations or divergencies from the exact truth have crept into my narrative, the pardon of anyone who may feel hurt or maligned is humbly asked. And lastly the thanks of the public are due to two people—to Mr. Dare, who fortunately found it convenient to visit Simanggang with his launch, and which, incidently, proved to be of inestimable value for umpiring,—and to Mr. Eng Yaw Huat for his masterly running of the whole Regatta. THE BUTLER. Psychic Phenomena in Simanggang. MYSTERIOUS FOOTSTEPS. The following has been sent to us by a Simanggang correspondent: The "Astana" at Simanggang has recently been the scene of some rather queer events. There are two explanations available, and readers may accept whichever appeals the most. Shortly, the facts are these. The occupier of the house, and his servants, have on several occasions heard sound through the stillness of the. night the soft pad of slow stately footsteps and the complaining creak of a loose board. Immediate investigations in and around the house have revealed—nothing! An occupied bedroom that had not been locked the evening before was found in the morning to be locked from the outside. And that night no footsteps were heard. Although the present building is a relatively new erection, all the tiangs. floor boards, walls and roof were taken from the old Astana, which was demolished in 1930 to make room for the new offices. It may be that these manifestations are the outcome of a practical joke, but the romantic associations of Simanggang with the early history of Sarawak and its White Rajahs leads one to hope that the explanation is not to be found in this direction. That a ghost walked in the Kubu Lama is undisputed : Has it changed its habitation? Third Division News. JANUARY. Forty-four civil and sixty-three criminal eases came before the Sibu Courts during January. Three Coroner’s inquests were held at Sibu during the month. The first was an inquiry into the death by drowning of a Chinese (Kheh) who slipped off a jelatong on the bank of the main river, while bathing, and disappeared, the body being recovered several days Inter. The second was an inquiry into the drowning of a Foochow, whose boat wits upset in a sudden squall. The third was upon the body of a female child (apparently Chinese) aged about 4 years, which was found floating in the river. No information or police report was forthcoming, and the body was in too advanced a stage of decomposition to determine the cause of death. An open verdict was returned. On January 13th news was received that Kudang, who, it will be remembered, was concerned in the brutal murder of a family of Chinese in the ulu Binatang during 1935. had been killed by Katibas Dayaks, and that two outlaws named Makati and Sirai had been captured. A few days later Wan Bujang, Native Officer, arrived at Sibu. accompanied bv Penghulus Sirai and Briak, and fifty of their followers; Sirai and Makau were brought up in the District Court, charged and remanded for trial by the Resident's Court. The total land revenue for the Third Division for December amounted to $14,747.56, which shows an increase of $5,917.00 (approximately) over the previous month. Thirty-nine applications for land including one building lot. were received during January, this being a decrease of twenty over the previous month. 199 deeds were registered, and registration fees and stamp duty amounted to $748.27. The following table gives the Sibu and Kanowit trade figures for January :— The old Sibu hospital has been demolished, and the Constabulary quarters on Island Road have been converted into a temporary hospital. Demarcation of the new hospital site was completed, and work is now in progress on the foundation. Forest Ranger Pendek paid another visit to the Pelagus area and surveyed S. Arak, connecting up with the ulu Datong Kanan, and closing on his former survey at N. Russa (Latong). The Divisional Forest Officer visited the Bukit Lima reserve on two occasions, to inspect felling areas and to try and induce the licensee to fell with axe and saw instead of axes only. After a demonstration to show economic stumping, lie adopted the former method. The Divisional Forest Officer also inspected the Taungya plot which is making good progress. Another area of just over one acre was taken up at the end of the month by a market gardener for growing vegetables; this area is adjacent to. and will be treated in the same way as, the previous Taungya plot. The Divisional Forest Officer visited the Kanowit Sawmill on the 17th with the local manager of the Borneo Campany. Sawing has been stopped until the arrival of the new machinery. Eighty-six patients were treated at Sibu hospital during the month. Of this number fifty-two were admissions, and the remainder were from the previous month. Four hundred and seventy-six cases were treated in the out-patient department, and seventy-six N.A.B. injections were administered. The total rainfall for the month was 15.98 inches, the highest recorded within 24 hours Iwing 2.13 inches. The Sibu Police Barracks, which have been converted into a temporary hospital, were occupied on the 11th. Accommodation in this temporary hospital is. however, limited, and some cases which should normally be treated in hospital are being treated at home as outpatients. The building, however, is self-contained, and with the limited staff this is an advantage. On January 21st news was received al Sibu that His Majesty King George V had passed away. All flags were immediately half-masted ; mourning was worn by all Europeans until Tuesday the 28th, the day of His late Majesty’s funeral, when two minutes’ silence was observed. All European and Native Officers attended at the flagstaff for the observance of the silence. Government offices being closed. On January 22nd R.A.F. Flying Boat No. K-4581 arrived at 4.20 p in. The Officers were :—Squadron Leader K. B. Lloyd A.P.C. (in command), Squadron Leader R. A. George, Flying Officer D. Michell, and Wing Commander Jagoe. Senior R.A.F. Chaplain. Far East. Mr. G. C. R. Franks of Singapore, was a passenger aboard the Flying Boat, which remained at Sibu for two nights, and left for Kuching on the 24th at 9.10 a.m. As is usual immediately before a tapping holiday, Sibu was crowded with Dayaks who bad come in to dispose of their rubber. Tn addition to these people, the men who had garrisoned the five blockhouses in the Katibas and Ga’at rivers arrived at Sibu to be paid off. There was considerable merry-making in the bazaar, and the Constabulary are to be commended for the tactful and efficient manner in which they controlled the situation. On Friday the 24th, Chinese New Year, the usual salute of seven guns was fired from the Fort Battery. Mr. A. L. MeLaine, accompanied by Mrs. MeLaine, returned from casual leave on January 7th. Mr. F. L. Mansel, who had been temporarily, stationed at Sibu, returned to Kuching on the 9th. Mr. B. Summers, Land and Survey Department, arrived on January loth to relieve Mr. R. N. Baron, who proceeded to Kuching on the 22nd. Mr. A. G. Taylor visited Sibu during the month on short leave. In the Bankruptcy Court at Sarikci the estate of Chop Hock Eng Hong was wound up, notice of appeal being given by the biggest creditors. The partners of Chop Kong Heng Chong of Sarikei were adjudicated bankrupt on their own petition. In Sarikei District Coort a Malay was sentenced to 6 months' rigorous imprisonment for theft from a dwelling house, and five Dayaks were sentenced for house-breaking. The District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports that a Chinese committed suicide by hanging himself from the verandah rail of the unoccupied European bungalow at Binatang. Apparently, he had been depressed at the recent suicide at Kanowit of one of the Wayang girls, with whom he hail an affair. A verdict of suicide while of unsound mind was returned. The Matu Police Barracks were broken into on the night of the 14th, and the property of a village constable stolen. The thief or thieves have not yet been traced. The District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports with the deepest regret the death of Abang Haji Ahmat Barlian bin Abang Haji Metair, Native Officer of Rejang. After successive attacks of fever, Abang Haji Ahmat was sent to Sibu on the 13th January for medical treatment but succumbed on the 26th. The funeral took place at Binatang, and was attended by all Administrative Officers of the Lower Rejang District. Abang Haji Ahmat Barlian was the head of the leading Malay family of Binatang. After many years of unofficial service, he succeeded his father as Tua Kampong in 1929, and was promoted Native Officer in 1933. doing duty at Binatang and Rejang. An officer of the old type, he was loyal and industrious, and highly respected by all communities. His untimely death at the age of 52 cuts short a life devoted to the service of His Highness the Rajah. T.arge numbers of Dayaks came down to Sarikei and Binatang when they received the news that they could once more buy cartridges. They all seemed to have plenty of money, and did not complain about lack of rice, as most of them appear to make an adequate living from their small rubber gardens. Dayak padi in the Lower Rejang area is again suffering badly from the ravages of rats and mice. Rat poison has been issued free to all Dayak applicants. During January the Agricultural Assistant arrived in the Sarikei district to make an inspection of rubber plantations. A piece of land adjoining the offices was cleared, stumped, and dug over for making an experimental vegetable garden, which will be started as soon as seeds arrive from Kuching. Construction of the downstream end of Sarikei wharf was almost completed by the end of January. The main concrete structure of Binatang godown was completed during the month, brickwork made satisfactory progress, and work was started on the roof truss. Earth filling to floor level is well in hand. The s.s. Ban Ho Leong, a vessel owned by a Chinese firm in Singa|>ore, is now attempting to capture some of the trade between the Rejang river and Singapore. She is a converted Thames barge, and sails under the Chinese flag. Owing to the varied nationalities of her officers and crew, it is rumoured that she is known in Singapore us tbe "League of Nations.” Stormy weather was experienced on the coast, accompanied by rain and floods. The bandongs hound from Kuching to Second Division ports were driven out of their course, and just managed to make shelter at Bruit after jettisoning all their cargo. The District Officer, Kapit, reports that Mong, a Dayak, was fined $50 or three months in default for spreading false rumours to the effect that Unya reported drowned near Belaga. had really been killed by Kayans; these rumours necessitated Native Officer Abang Ahmat and Penghulu Temunggong Koh visiting Belaga to calm down Dayaks, who were going to bales on the Kayans. Investigations were made into the Belaga report that a Kayan woman, who had died in childbirth, had been buried together with the living child in accordance with the old custom. It appeared that the child had been born prematurely, was not properly formed, and only lived for a short time; it was already dead when buried. 179 patients were treated at Kapit Government dispensary during the month. Among these was one of the Kayans who was wounded m the Pelagus affair, when a party of Kayans and Malays were attacked by outlaws. He requested the dresser to extract some of the shot which he had received, and which was now beginning to trouble him ; this was done, and it turned out that they were No. 6. and not buckshot, as was originally supposed. Penghulus Atan, Sibat, Grinang, T. Koh, Jugah, Ugak, Entili and Manok Manchal visited Kapit during the month, and Penghulus Sirai, Briak and Bedimbab visited Song. On January 27th Penghulu Puso arrived from Belaga with about sixty Kayans, Kejamans. Skapans and others. Three nights before reaching Kapit they had moored to the bank for the night when a storm arose, and during the night a tree fell on tho boat. The Kayans thought they were attacked by munsoh as in the Pelagus affair, and prepared for a fight with parangs; however no outlaws materialised, and they soon found out the true state of affairs. The prahu was broken beyond repair, but the occupants had lucky escapes, and apart from minor injuries came to no serious hurt. On January 11th Penghulus Sirai, Briak and Bedimbab with a bala of 50 arrived at Song with news of the death of Kudang, a murderer and outlaw. They proceeded to Sibu, returning on 16th. On the 17th Native Officer Abang Indeh with five police and fifteen levies proceeded up the Katibas to Padang Woh for further investigation into the Kudang affair. They were still away at end of the month. Penghulu Grinang received permission to take a bala of fifteen men up the Ulu Gat and to the Kanyau district to look for rebels. On January 9th, instructions were received for the withdrawal of all patrols and levies from Ga'at and Katibas blockhouses. This has been done. Towards the end of the month early harvesting had started in some areas in the Kapit district; crops on the whole are only moderate, and rata and birds, especially the former, are reported to have done more damage than usual. Most of the padi at Belaga is a failure, and disease has killed off much that had already grown to a reasonable height. The fall in the price of rattan resulted in very little being exported from Song or Kapit during January. An unfortunate accident occurred during the month at Mukah, a girl pupil of the convent school being killed as the result of falling down a well. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned at the subsequent inquest, and the well has since been covered in. The District Officer, Mukah, reports that during a visit to the Ulu he observed that the general health of the Dayaks, particularly the children, was very poor. In his opinion this is chiefly due to poor diet, and also to lack of medical facilities. One Dayak who had been suffering for about two years from what appeared to be an acute mastoid abscess was brought down-river and sent to Sibu hospital. Ninety-six patients wore treated at Mukah Government dispensary during the month, and twenty-three N.A.B. injections were administered. All Dayak houses in the ulu Mukah except those m the ulu Selangau have finished their 1935 padi and are eating sago or else borrowing padi from Selangau houses. The Dayaks state that this year's padi crop will be a failure, owing to an abnormal plague of rats and mice. They asked for rat poison, but it doubtful if this could be supplied in sufficient quantity to do any good. It therefore appears that there is some possibility of a rice famine probably towards the end of this year. Several Dayak padi-farms in the ulu were inspected ; the soil for the most part is poor, and the padi in consequence is stunted. In many houses there is a genuine lack of good land. The new Chinese school at Dalat was officially opened by the District Officer on the morning of January 22nd. The school is situated behind Dalat Bazaar and has three large class-rooms, also accommodation for masters, etc. Fortunately, there is ample room for playing fields to be laid out in the vicinity. The school is a fine building, well planned and well constructed, and is a real credit to the Chinese community of Dalat. There were present at the opening ceremony the Rev. Fathers A. Mulder and C. Epping. Mr. Chua Hoi Tiaw, Capitan China, Dalat. Awang Bunyok, Native Officer, together with the teaching staff and a number of local Towkays. It is understood that the school will be known in future as the Chin Hua School, and not "Hong Mong," as the old school was named. A scheme has been prepared for the collection of subscriptions for Oya Mosque which is at present in a very bad state of repairs. A meeting to discuss this scheme was held on January 20th, the mosque officials and the heads of the Melanau Islam community being present. The District Officer, Oya and Dalat reports that padi and jagong are doing well in the ulu Oya and the Dayaks hope for a good harvest. Penghulu Untol came down during the month with new logs for the Oya landing stage, and reported all well in his district. The price of raw sago dropped again during January, the price at Dalat being 46 cents per passu, and at S. Kut 54 cents per passu. The amount of raw sago exported from the district decreased slightly as compared with December. The figures were :— By Sea 30 koyans. By S. Kut 151 „ Fourth Division News. JANUARY. No crime of any importance was committed in Limbang district during the month. A few Kelabits visited Limbang during January, being brought down from the Medihit by Mr. and Mrs. Davidson, of the Borneo Evangelical Mission. Early in the month a large number of Dayaks came to Limbang for cock-fighting. A meeting is held only once or twice a year in this district, but when it does take place it is always well attended. The ulu Limbang and Lubai people competed against Dayaks from Temburong, Panderuan and Berawan. A considerable, number of durians were brought round from Trusan and put on the market at Limbang. but no trees fruited in the Limbang river. Swamp padi crops, which appear very satisfactory, were ripening by the end of the month, and the harvest has commenced. Owing to suspected smuggling of rubber from Brunei and Temburong into Limbang. and from British North Borneo into Merapok and Lawas. the promises of all rubber exporters and dealers in the district were searched. Four convictions for breaches of Rubber Restriction Orders insulted. Below are extracts from a report by Mr. H. E. Cutfield. District Officer. Limbang and Lawas, on a visit to the Dayaks and Tagals in Sungei Labai and Sungei Ukong :— "Accompanied by Up-river Agent Jaya and one Village Constable I left Limbang by boat at 7 a.m. on January 1st, 1936. "The lower part of 8. Lubai is of little use for farming, buffalo halamans or any other useful purpose, and consequently there are few inhabitants, but I was surprised to learn that one house of two doors of Muruts were living in a sidestream quite near the mouth. “Up the Limbang it is nearly four hours by launch before the Malay Kampongs and land are passed, then come the Bisayahs, and then the Murota, so that a Murut house within an hour and a half of the Fort was a complete surprise. "All Tagul and Dayak-Tagal houses were visited, and their Tuai collected, and we arrived at Rumah Chupoh (Dayak-Tagal) about 4.30 p.m. Here we spent the night, the Tuai of all houses below this or their representatives being present. These people do not get good harvests, and have already had to buy rice, which is not the case of people living in the Ulu Lubai. Chupoh and his house, I believe, are industrious, but always short of rice. However, they have a certain amount of rubber as a compensation. In the evening an aum was held which lusted until about 1 a.m. "On the unanimous selection of the Tagals, who were all present. Ampar was selected head of the house in place of Semayoh. who is at present serving a sentence of imprisonment for incest. "Owing to a weak defence put up by Semayoh when convicted of this offence, the Tagals were asked if they had any objection to Dayak customs, which they are expected to follow, of- if they would prefer the introduction of their own customs. Their reply was of interest, since they were very emphatic and decisive in their opinion that they wished to follow Dayak adat and Dayak adat only "I naturally asked them if they understood and wore conversant with Dayak customs. They replied 'Oh yes, we learnt adat. Iban in B.N.B. before we came here, from the few Sarawak Kampar Dayaks who have settled there and married our women.' They are not a prepossessing crowd, and seem very slow-witted and appear to look up to the Iban, but they are very willing, and given more favourable land and opportunities, might be very useful people; they will not. however, go far on their own initiative. Some more are moving here from Merapok, Lawas, after this harvest, but they have not picked very favourable land. "On January 21st, 1936, I left Rumah Chupoh at 6.30 a.m. and called at all houses. Above here houses become more frequent, but the actual river banks are too deeply flooded to lie of any use. and all houses are some way inland. About an hour and a half was spent at Rumah Ubong at midday. These people are well off for padi and rubber. I arrived at Rumah Penghulu Wee (the last house up the Lubai) about 5 p.m. : the welcome here with cannons, crackers, krumong. etc., was almost excessive, but unavoidable. The Lubai has, I think, been rather neglected. The Borneo Evangelical Mission have built a small house here, and Mr. and Mrs. Tolley were in residence, but us I had brought up their mail, and they had not had one for six weeks, they were not disappointed when I had to refuse their kind invitation to an evening meal. "The night at Penghulu Wee's house, of course, meant a whole night’s sitting, and day-light and another bath dispersed the party. Business was attended to before the crowd became unmanageable. "On January 22nd. I left Rumah Penghulu Wee's at 7.30 a.m. by boat for the short distance to the Pengkalan, and then travelled overland, arriving at Ukong at 12.45. Penghulu Sisal and a number of Bisayahs were present. In the afternoon, since the representatives of the Limbang Bisayahs and the Lubai Dayaks were present, the boundary between their two lands was discussed. Up-river Agent Jaya had been on this for some time, as it had always been a bone of contention where the Limbang (Bisayah) buffalo land ended, and the Lubai (Dayak) farming land began; at one place the extent of land between the two rivers is not great and buffalos (untethered) can do a considerable amount of damage. The Bisayahs had field out for a boundary originally laid down by Mr. Ricketts. "This boundary was only provisional. and at the time neither rivers wished to spread so far. Also this was before the Dayak influx into this district on a large scale, and the Lubai was almost entirely uninhabited. Jaya, alter full consideration, hud made out another boundary. This was fully discussed in the afternoon, when the. contestants were asked to retire and discuss the matter under the supervision of their respective Ppnghulus, Wee and Sisal. They returned to the Court at 6 p.m. and expressed themselves entirely satisfied with the new boundarv. A regulation was also laid down that Dayaks farming near the boundary were responsible for the erection of fences sufficient to protect their farms from buffalo as they are the last to arrive and the land originally belonged to the Bisayahs. This was agreed to, and the arrangement was recorded. "On January 23rd, I left by M. L. Sylvia at 7 a.m., called at Kuala Bidan to inspect and approve the site for a sago factory, and arrived al Limbang at 11.45 a.m." Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 31,360 lbs. of dry rubber during January. The Assistant District Officer, Lawas and Trusan. reports that his district, not even excluding Sundar, has been extraordinarily well-behaved for some months past. This, while very satisfactory from one point of view, has its disadvantages, since the resulting emptiness of the jail is making the task of keeping the station neat and tidy increasingly difficult. In the absence of any candidate for the existing vacancies in Lawas prison, it is probable that use will have to be made at intervals of casual labour. At Miri, work was commenced during January on a new cutting for the Tanjong Lobang Hill Hoad. The work wilt cut out the dangerous ‘‘8” bend on this road, and will materially shorten it. The following are the trade and customs figures for Miri for January :— During January the District Officer, Bintulu, made an extensive tour of the Tuban. Jelalong, Labang, Pandan and Sebungan rivers. He reports that the Dayaks and other natives seem prosperous and contented. The outlook for the padi crop, however, is very bad,—hi some eases the padi will not be worth harvesting. A plague of rats and mice appears to have caused great damage to crops throughout the whole district. The new kampong scheme across the Sebiew River at Bintulu is milking satisfactory progress, tails have now been demarcated and are being readily taken up. The following are the trade and customs figures for Bintulu for January :— Work has been commenced on the final cleaning of the Bintulu landing ground. This includes the final removal of all stumps, roots, logs, and other obstructions from under the surface; these are heaped with the peaty top-soil, ready for burning, and the result will eventually be used as a top dressing. The District Officer, Barnin, accompanied by Tuanku Mohamad, Native Officer, left the station on January 17th to attend the Punan meetings, and was still away at the end of the month. CORRESPONDENCE. [The Editor is not responsible for the opinions of correspondents.] KUCHING, 18th February, 1936. To the Editor, Sarawak Gazette. Rm, I have made another excursion to Upper Sarawak in the Bidi-Krokong district, and noticing the prevalence of Kepla trees it occurred to me that then is possibility of an industry which could be carried on by the Dayak population with considerable benefit to themselves. Distillation of the wood and roots of these trees would yield an nil of the type of the Sassafras oil obtained in the U.S.A, which finds a ready market in Europe. The Dayak people, so dexterous with the parang, could reduce the wood to chips, and primitive distilling apparatus could be devised, which they could make and operate. It is some Unity years since I handled Sassafras oil. but I believe, that the oil to he got from Kepla trees would be superior to the Sassafras oil that came into the market at that rather distant period. If any of my experience in getting essential oils, can be applied for the benefit of the Dayak people, it would be willingly given. I have also had brought to my notice a specimen of a salt, which was found to he Tincal, or native Sodium Biborate. This was found in a prospecting pit close to the Bidi Road, at the Kim Hong mine, and was shown to me by Cbong Kia Ek. The Tincal occurred in a stiff clay overlaying limestone, at a depth of about six feet, which I would consider to preclude the probability of adventitious occurrence. It is therefore probable that the Borate come up in underground water, in supersaturated solution. A well-crystallized specimen was taken, and the clay from the bottom of the pit was lixiviated yielding Borax. It is not suggested that this observation is of economical value, but it may be a contribution to Geological knowledge of the district when taken together with the fact that warm subterranean waler still comes to the surface at Paku. Your obedient servant, D. JAMES.