The Sarawak Gazette MONDAY NOVEMBER 2nd. 1936. Death. ARJAN J. LALCHAND.—On 16th October, 1936, at 1.55 a.m„ at the General Hospital, Kuching, son of Mr. & Mrs. J. Lalchand of the Luxini Store. Kuching. Aged 8 years. Had attended St. Mary's School for 3 years. Acknowledgment ----------- ------------ Mr. & Mrs. J. Lalchand of the Luxmi Store. Kuching, tender their heartfelt thanks to their many friends who so kindly sent wreaths, scrolls and letters of condolence upon the death of their son Arjan J. Lalchand and also to those who attended the funeral on 10th October, 1936. Mr. Chin Shin Sen begs to lender his thanks to all friends and relatives who sent wreaths and letters of condolence during his recent bereavement and also those who attended his beloved and loving wife's funeral on 11th October, 1936, Local and Personal. OCTOBER. His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie sailed from Marseilles by P.&O. s.s. Comorin on October 30th, and are due to reach Singapore on November 20th. Their Highnesses are expected to arrive in Kuching by the Vyner Brooke on November 23rd. Her Highness the Ranee is due to arrive about a fortnight later. Mr. A. W. D. Brooke left Kuching for the Third Division in H.H.M.Y. Maimuna on October 8th. and took over his new duties at Nanga Meluan on the 12th. Other passengers by the Maimuna were Dayang Anne, Mr. C. D. Adams, Resident, Third Division, and Mrs. Adams, Miss F. A. Putnam, and the Rev. Father C. Epping, who was returning to Dalat after a visit to Kuching.—his first for five years. Miss Putnam is staying at. Sibu for a week or two as the guest of Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Adams. Dayang Anne returned to Kuching on October 17th. Major W. F. N. Bridges. Deputy Surveyor General. S.S. & F.M.S.. arrived in Kuching by the Vyner Brooke on October 23rd. We understand that Major Bridges is to spend six months in Sarawak in order to survey the rubber restriction position. Shortly after the Bau gold hold-up, an account of which will be found elsewhere in this issue, the District Officer, Bau. was stopped on his way to Kuching by a Sikh policeman, who informed him politely and in very good English that he had orders to search all cars coming from Bau. On being informed that the occupant of the car was none other than the District Officer, he saluted and said—“Oh. I beg your pardon, Sir. I thought you were a Christian The District Officer proceeded on his way to Kuching, rather puzzled as to the connection between his religious beliefs and a highway robbery. H.M.S. Herald paid two visits to Kuching during the month, namely from October 23rd to 26th. and from October 30th to November 2nd. A welcome visitor was Mrs. Hardy, the wife of Commander N. A. C. Hardy, R.N.. who arrived by the Vyner Brooke on October 23rd. Mrs. Hardy, who leaves for Singapore early in November, is staving at the Residency as the guest of Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Dick. At 8.0 p.m. on the night of Sunday, November 1st, the Captain and Officers of H.M.S. Herald were ‘at home’ to about fifty guests, having very kindly issued an open invitation to the European residents of Kuching. Fortunately the weather, which had been threatening, remained fine, and nothing occurred to mar a most delightful evening, and one which afforded those of the guests who were new to Naval hospitality an excellent opportunity of finding out just what this means, and just how good it can be. Receptions of this nature on board warships are always a success, but to us in Sarawak ‘the packetvaart’ is more than just a passing man-of-war; during the past nine or ten years she has maintained such a close association with Sarawak that we have almost ceased to regard her as one of H.M. ships, and have come to think of her as a floating piece of Sarawak territory, so to speak. It is there¬ fore only natural that an atmosphere  of more than ordinary cordiality should prevail between the ship and the shore, and that the Herald’s personnel should be regarded not merely as so many Naval Officers and ratings, but as close personal friends. This feeling was very evident on board the Herald on Sunday night, and helped to make the recap tion a truly memorable occasion. The success of the party was assured from the start, however, by the excellent organization on the part of the hosts, to whom our heartiest thanks are due for a most enjoyable evening, —which somehow extended well into the morning! It is good to know that we shall have a chance of repaying the Herald's hospitality next year. H.M.S. Herald sailed for Singapore and Hong Kong on November 2nd. Mr. R. B. Summers, of the Land and Survey Department, who has resigned his appoint¬ ment in the Government Service, left for Europe from Sibu on October 24th. His many friends in Sarawak will join with us in wishing him all success in his new career. Mr. Summers paid a short farewell visit to Kuching before leaving, returning to Sibu by m.v. Rejang on October 20th. We must congratulate (rather belatedly !) Mr. and Mrs. W. Philp on the birth of a daughter, which arrived on October 1st. Mr. and Mrs. Philp and their daughter returned to Kuching from Singapore on October 12th. We also welcome back Mrs. Hutchison, who arrived from Europe on the same day. Mr. C. W. S. Gardner, Visiting Agent, and Mr. R. F. Burt, a Director of Tanah Estates, Ltd., Kanowit, paid a visit to the estate during the month and returned to Singapore via Kuching. Octoter was a notable month for athletics in Kuching, no less than three large meetings being held, the occasions being China’s National Day. the St. Thomas’ School Jubilee Celebrations, and the annual meeting of St. Joseph's School. Full accounts of each meeting will be found under “First Division News. We have received from the Rev. Father A. Klerk. Rector of the Roman Catholic Mission, Kanowit, a volume of Bible History (Old and New Testaments) prepared by Father Klerk and translated by him into the Sea Dayak language. Father Klerk is well known as an authority on Sea Dayak language and customs, having spent some 40 years in the Kanowit district, and this book is a striking tribute both to his industry and scholarship. Apart from its importance to Mission workers in Dayak areas, this Bible History will prove of great interest and value to all students of the Sea Dayak language, to whom it can be heartily recommended. The book is excellently hound and printed, and copies can be obtained from the Rev. Father Klerk at the very moderate prices of $1 and 75 cents for linen and board bindings res¬ pectively. Father Klerk is to be congra¬ tulated on a remarkable achievement. Highway Robbery in First Division. CAR HELD UP ON BAU —KUCHING ROAD. A bad case of gang robbery, a crime from which Sarawak has until now been comparatively free, occurred just, after 1.0 p.m. on October 23rd at the 9th Mile, Bau Road. The victim was Mr. Ong Eng Hin, the Manager of Bukit Young Gold Mine, who was taking a bar of gold worth $3,000 and $800 in cash from the mine to Kuching. The taxi in which Mr. Ong and two other Chinese were travelling was held up by a rubber tree that had been felled across the road; as soon as the car stopped, it was surrounded by seven masked Chinese armed with sticks, knives, a revol¬ ver and a home-made bomb, the latter being placed in front of the car, where it exploded without doing any damage. The robbers forced Mr. Ong to sur¬ render the gold bar and the cash and then seized everything that was of the slightest value, including some clothing, and made off. The news of the crime was telephoned to Kuching from the Police station at the 7th Mile, and detach¬ ments of Constabulary were at once dent to the scene of the robbery and also to Batu Kawa, with orders to patrol all roads and paths leading towards Sinia- wan. A clue was obtained on the river bank about 200 yards from the scene of the hold-up. several Government bills and receipts bearing Mr. Ong Eng Hin's name being found here; it was known that these bills had been in Mr. Ong's pocket book, which the robbers had taken. Moreover, footprints and the mark of the bow of a boat were seen in the mud of the river bank, and police were sent across river to patrol all paths and make a general search of the neighbourhood. About 5.0 p.m. one of the patrols saw two men about 150 yards away walking in the direction of Batu Kawa. The men at once bolted into the undergrowth on catching sight of the police, who gave chase and succeeded in arresting them both, although it was raining heavily at the time and visibility was very poor amongst the trees. The two men turned out to be Khehs, and one of them was seen to throw away a bundle of clothes and a towel when pursued. These were retrieved, and the bun¬ dle was found to contain a revolver loaded in three chambers; among the clothes were some that were later identified by Mr. Ong Eng Hin as those which had been stolen from the car. The other man tried to dispose of a parany, which, when examined was seen to be still wet and sticky as though it had lately been used for cutting a rubber tree. A thorough search in the undergrowth revealed nothing further, and both prisoners, who were local men, denied all knowledge of the robbery. As a result of information received a further search was made some days later in the babas near the place where this arrest took place, (about three miles from Batu Kawa,) and eventually the gold bar was found, together with some other clothes that had been taken from the car at the same time as the gold. The police have the names of other persons suspected of having been concerned in the robbery, and one further arrest has been made, details of which are not yet to band. This hold-up, the first of its kind in Sarawak, was carried out in a style worthy of the best tradition of Hollywood's gangsters. Indeed, the masks, bomb and pistol were rather overdoing things since as a rule the producer of even the most lurid film knows better nowadays than to impose on the credulity of the public with such an overwhelming display of crook's paraphernalia. All of which goes to show that truth really is stranger than fiction, and that Chinese criminals must lie peculiarly susceptible to the influence of the kind of detective story that one now finds only in boys' papers. This time, however, their efforts to make the flesh of law-abiding citizens creep were spoilt by the excellent work of the Constabulary, whose recovery of the stolen gold must rank as one of the best pieces of police work carried out in Sarawak for a long time. The Constabulary Officers and other ranks concerned are to be congratulated on the success of their efforts and on the initiative and acumen displayed, which must have proved highly discouraging to other intending Dick Turpins. A Note On Food. IV. The old outstation 'dead hen’ legend dies hard. When one has had to face a Hylam cook's idea of chicken for luncheon and dinner most days of the week for two or three years, one is apt to grow a trifle embittered, and to view the humble but necessary fowl with jaundiced eyes. Indeed, the time comes when the mere sight of one of the creatures scratching about in the garden fills one with a feeling of angry resentment, and when the prospect of the skinny drumsticks that one will have to face in a few hours' time evokes a truly Chekhovian mood of frustration and despair. This is understandable, but not unavoidable, for there are two solutions to the 'dead hen' problem. The first is to make an intelligent use of fish, eggs and vegetables in order not to have to rely on chicken as the daily staple dish even in places where fresh meat is unobtainable; the second is to ensure, by the exercise of a little care, that when one does have to eat chicken it shall be neither tough nor unpalatable. Chicken has acquired a bad name in Sarawak because it is almost always spoiled before it ever reaches the table. There are three essential rules to be observed when preparing fowls for eating the birds should be young, if possible, they should be hung for at least eighteen hours before cooking, and they should always be plucked by hand. The average cook, like Gallio, cares for none of these things. He buys the cheapest fowl he can find irrespective of it’s age; he kills it a couple of hours before it is due to appear on the table, thereby ensuring that its flesh shall have the consistency of rubber; and he facilitates the removal of its feathers by plunging it into boiling water, thus removing at the same time the greater part of its flavour. The observance of the three rules I have mentioned turns 'dead hen’ into chicken. The bird that is to be eaten for luncheon should be killed not later than the previous evening; eighteen hours is never too long to hang a fowl in Sarawak, even in the hottest weather, and one can often go up to thirty hours with safety. Twenty- four hours can be taken as the golden mean, given normal conditions. It is this, combined with hand-plucking, that makes all the difference. Those who are accus¬ tomed to hear the dying screams of the luncheon chicken an hour or so before the meal is served (a common enough outstation experience!) simply will not recognize a bird that has been adequately hung and properly prepared. In the one case, the flesh is appallingly tough and quite tasteless; in the other, the texture and flavour approximate fairly closely to the real thing. Outstation chicken can be very nearly as good as its English counter¬ part, which is saying something. Chicken in Sarawak is usually cooked by being quartered and thrown into a frying pan with some dripping or (more often) kachang oil. or even minyak babi. As an alternative it appears roast, boiled, or in the form of a greasy stew. And then there is, of course, that sinister compound known as 'chicken cutlet,'—this is a conglomeration of those portions of the fowl’s anatomy of which the bird, when alive, had least reason to be proud, welded together by some mysterious alchemy and drenched in a sauce composed of grease thickened with flour and insufficiently fried onions. Yet there are other and better ways of cooking fowls. They are very good, for instance, cut up and grilled with bacon ever a hot charcoal fire, then served with mushrooms, peas and mushed potatoes, and garnished with their own livers, also grilled. Fried chicken a la Maryland is so well known that it needs no description, but how often do we see it in Sarawak? Why. in the name of common sense, should restaurants have the mono¬ poly of this excellent and comparatively simple dish? Again, chicken can be braised in a number of ways and served 'en casserole’ with all kinds of different accompaniments; any cookery book will furnish half a dozen recipes, and these can be added to by invention. Why not try them? What about chicken stewed with whole ears of sweet corn, for instance? Or chicken braised with bacon, pimentos, spices, and a generous quantity of chopped onions? Done in this way no liquid is required,—that is provided by the onions. After simmering for four hours in a closed earthenware dish the onions will be found to have disappeared entirely, leaving only a sauce the mere smell of which will make your mouth water. Surprisingly enough, the flavour of onions by no means predomi¬ nates : the dish is enormously improved by the addition of a dash of brown sherry shortly before serving. If you are using a large number of fowls, a good idea is to save the livers and use them for risotto, a simple but delightful Italian dish which makes a very pleasant change. They can also be served CH brochette, namely grilled on a skewer, the livers being interspersed with mushrooms and pieces of bacon; and of course angels on horse¬ back -chicken livers rolled in a rasher of bacon, fried and served on pieces of crisp fried bread— make a first rate savoury. Arroz à la Valenciana, a Spanish dish consisting of rice fried with saffron, chicken, pimento, fish, crayfish and mussels is so good that I shall describe it in detail. Cook some krang*, open them, and set them aside. Boil about a [pound of tenggiri or other firm sea fish (eels are frequently used in Spain) and one crayfish in some salted water, set aside when cooked, but leave the head of the cray¬ fish in the stock. Add to this the liquor from the krang. Quarter a chicken, fry it in butter with some sliced onions, cover with water to which has been added a little meat stock or a couple of bouillon cubes, and cook for one hour. Set aside separately the chicken and the stock. * The local cockle.—to take the place of mussels. Strain the fish and chicken stocks and put them into a pan. Fry the requisite quantity of rice in oil, moisten with the boiling stock and add some pimentos. Season with care, and add saffron. Cover the pan and cook over a moderate heat for twenty minutes; by that time the rice is cooked but not quite dry. Take the lid off and leave the pan over a very low heat for at least half an hour, from time to time stirring the rice at the bottom of the pan up to the surface with a wooden spoon. Before serving (in a casserole) add the chicken, the krang the fish cut in chunks, also the crayfish, which should be split in half and left in its shell. This dish makes an admirable substitute for the Sunday curry. Before leaving the subject of chicken—having. I hope, done something to dissipate the aura of fear and distaste which hangs over that bird—let me mention poulet. Demidoff, a delicious dish all the  ingredients of which can be obtained in any Sarawak outstation. The recipe, too, can be found in any good cookery book. One day I shall go to a dinner-party expecting to eat the usual roast chicken with bread sauce, greasy roast potatoes and string beans, and to my delight I shall be given instead poulet Demidoff. One day.—yes, perhaps. But not, I fear, in Sarawak. Few people realise how good the local duck can he if properly prepared and rooked. The rules laid down for fowls apply equally to ducks except that since they are usually rather dirty feeders and hence liable to deteriorate more rapidly than chickens, the period of hanging should be slightly reduced. A duck that has been adequately hung and well roasted is a splendid dish; it should be served with souffle or fried potatoes, peas, and an orange salad. Duck is very good braised with bacon and green peas, but when doing the preliminary frying remember that ducks usually have a good layer of fat which enables one to dispense to a great extent with butter or any other oil. Remember, too. that since tinned cooked peas will have to take the place of fresh peas, these should not be added until the duck is nearly done, though the liquor from the tin should be used, with the addition of stock, as the braising medium. Boast duck can he excellent cold, provided it is kept on the ice before serving and is accompanied by a salad with a rather tort dressing. Cold lean bacon is another good accessory,—provided, again, that it is really cold. No mention of duck would he complete without some reference to Chinese methods of preparing it. The Chinese are supposed to be able to cook a duck in eighty different ways, and seeing that they can make a most appetising dish out. of only the skin, this is not hand to believe. If you are lucky enough to employ a good Chinese cook, you can give him a free hand when it conies to duck ; honed and stuffed in the Chinese fashion, it is a dish to remember. Pigeons, which can be bred with comparatively little trouble, figure all too seldom in Sarawak menus. They arc a welcome change from chicken and duck, and can be cooked in a number of intri¬ guing ways. They are very good, for instance, wrapped in a rasher of fat, bacon and roasted on a spit in front of a charcoal fire, the bacon dripping being used for basting purposes; they are also delicious stuffed with lotus seeds and slewed in the Chinese fashion, and if they are combined with ham. hard boiled egg. beef steak (if obtainable) kidneys, and krang, they make the sort of pie you dream about. Indeed, pigeons have such possibi¬ lities that I shall break my rule and quote the following recipe from a French cookery book :— “Cover the birds with fat bacon rashers and fry in a braising pan. Add a little water and some salt, cover and braise carefully. When cooked, dish up on a bed of potato purée; add a glass of port to the contents of the pan, boil up (or five minutes and pour over the dish." And here is a recipe of my own which is extravagant hut. delicious : — Wrap each bird in a rasher of fat bacon and secure with a few turns of coarse thread. Stuff with a mixture composed of the liver, breadcrumbs, minced ham and about six skinned and seeded grapes: if these are slightly unripe, so much the better. (Grapes can be obtained quite cheaply in the bazaar. Place the birds in a stew-pan and fry in the dripping from the bacon with a little sliced onion : moisten with some strong stock and a generous allowance of dry white wine, add some rice, and cook over a low heat until the birds are lender. Remove the thread from the pigeons, transfer to an earthenware casserole, add some grapes (but leave the skins on, this time), and. plenty of tinned button mushrooms. Moisten again, if necessary, with the mushroom liquor and more wine, and simmer until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Serve in a casserole with a few croutons of crisp fried bread. Well, that finishes the poultry. leathered game is not plentiful in Sarawak, and in most outstations is confined to snipe (in season) and curtain kinds of wild pigeon. The only varieties of the latter with which we are concerned are, in descending order of size, pergam, perdidi and punai. Pergam are large birds with plenty of meat on them; the only trouble is that it is so tough that it is not worth eating. There is only one real way to cook a pergam, and that is to Lang it for a full 21 hours, then skin it (most important) and stew it with some fat bacon, a clove or two, a good deal of salt and pepper, and plenty of onions. Simmer for six hours at least in a closed pan, then take out the pergam and give it to the dog. Strain the liquor that remains in the pan. add a dash of Worcestershire sauce, and you have a passable soup. Perdidi are fairly good eating, since although they are apt to he a trifle stringy, they are not nearly so tough as pergam, and so can be treated in the same way as domestic pigeons, -always assuming that they have been properly hung. Punai are excellent, having a delicate garney flavour all their own; they should be wrapped in a rasher of bacon, fried and served on a piece of fried bread, or else made into a pie: they are also good served ‘en casserole’ with mushrooms and green peas. The snip’ is the king of all game birds in Sarawak. Tie can be fried in the same way as a punai. but he is at his best roasted in front of a charcoal fire, with or without bacon,—in either case he should be well basted, or else he is apt to bo rather dry. A snipe, of course, should always be served complete with head, which is a great tit-bit ; for those who eat breakfast there is no better meal than a couple of snipe properly cooked and served, and the smell of them cooking has been known to make even habitual non-breakfasters put down their glass and reach with trembling hands for a knife and fork. Rusa and kijang. the two species of deer most frequently encountered in Sarawak, furnish excellent venison, again always assuming that they are hung for a reasonable time. They should be 'gralloched and skinned as soon after killing as possible, and then hung in a cool place for at least 18 hours. In the meantime, you can make a meal off the liver, which is quite excellent by itself, or fried with bacon and onions.—it has a rather strong flavour which is most intriguing. It is also delicious cut in thin slices and eaten cold with a vinaigrette sauce. Venison (for let us call it that) can be cooked in almost as many different ways as any other kind of meat. A roast haunch of rusa is a noble dish either hot or cold: if the latter, serve with chutney, you will be surprised how it brings out the flavour. The bones and 'trimmings’, too, can he made into a very good soup, with or without vegetables; indeed, venison is one of the most welcome additions to the outstation menu. If you want a really unforgettable dish, line a casserole with cubes of fat bacon then add alternate layers of venison cut in chunks, pimento, and chopped onions, using plenty of the latter. Each layer should be seasoned with salt, a very little chili and a liberal sprinkling of paprika, which you can buy locally in bottles. Simmer for four hours and you will find that the onions have again done the vanishing trick: the result is an especially tasty version of ‘goulash’, a dish of national importance in Hungary and one which gives downtrodden plants in the Carpathians fresh hope, and a new faith in life. It should be served with macaroni ent into strips about four inches long and sprinkled with grated cheese. If half a glass of brown sherry is added just before serving, this glorious dish will be still further improved. V. And now we come to vegetables, which perhaps suffer more injustice and indignity in Sarawak kitchens than anything else. To start with, a number of local vegetables ought never to come within shouting-distance of the kitchen at all; there is. tor instance, a greyish, semi-transparent sub¬ stance that is usually served cut in unappetising looking chunks. What this substance is. I have never discovered ; it is alleged to be a vegetable and is apparently edible, since I have seen people eat it often enough, and have even tried it myself on occasion without ill effects. The taste is not unpleasant for the simple reason that it has no taste at all. It is utterly negative, like eating a lump of solidified fog. Yet in Sarawak people swallow this stuff regularly, not because they like it, but because their cook gives it them. Among other vegetables that should be black¬ listed by anyone with any respect for his palate are boiled cucumber, string beans, carrots, anti those slimy abominations known as ladies’ fingers’. This is a grisly enough list, certainly, but it is not so discouraging as it sounds since there are plenty of good local vegetables if one takes the trouble to look around for them. One of the best of these is rebong (bamboo-shoots) which is very good hot. with a little butter and salt, and which, when cold, makes a first-class salad. Mention of butter, incidentally, reminds me that the English use it all too seldom in vegetable cookery, preferring to boil vegetables until all their flavour and nourishment have been transferred to the surrounding water, which is then thrown down the sink. No Frenchwoman would dream of boiling vegetables unless she intends to make soup out of The Rat Menace in Padi Fields. The following extract from ‘Anak Singa- pura’s’ column in the Straits Times throws an interesting light on some aspects of a problem which, in Sarawak, is always with us, and for which no effective solution appears to be in sight. The havoc wrought by rats in the Baram padi fields this year has been so serious that Mr. E. Banks, the Curator, Sarawak Museum, is at present on a visit to that district in order to make investigations, and. if possible, to devise some means of checking their depredations—ED. RATTUS RATTUS The other day we discoursed on Malayan locusts. To-day our subject shall be the rice-field rat. Most people do not know that there is a distinct rat of the rice-fields, but there is. and in some ways he is a much more prepossessing animal than the other three Malayan species, the jungle rat, the house rat and the English wharf rat (an alien who has established himself in coastal towns m this country). Your rice-field rat. who rejoices in the name of Rattus Rattus Argentiventer, is one of the cleanest- feeding animals in existence, for its diet is mainly vegetarian, and the main item in that diet i- succulent unripe padi, although it is not averse to an occasion grasshopper as well. The motorist, when driving through padi districts, often sees places in the middle of the fields which look as though a runaway buffalo has trampled down the growing crop. But in nine times out of ten that is not the correct explanation; Rattus Rattus Argentiventcr has been at work, gnawing through the stalks of the padi near their base. Here we see the intelligence of the rat demon¬ strated. for he damages only the centre of the field, invariably leaving a thick fringe of standing padi to provide cover and screen his borrows around the edges of the field. NINETY BABIES. People who like permutations and combinations should try them on the rut : they will be amazed at the result. No less than five and a half million rats were destroyed in six years in Krian, in an area of 80,000 acres during the 1925-30 campaign of the Agricultural Department. As every one of those dead rats earned a bounty of a Cent a tail, there must have been abounding cheerfulness in Krian at that time, especially among the Tamils, who. in addition to selling the tail, did not disdain to pop the rat into their curry. And what's more, they ranged far and wide in their rat¬ hunting, so that although Government's purpose was to kill off the rats in the rice-fields alone, it was in fact paying out money for a large proportion of rats which were living blameless lives elsewhere. But to return to the question of how it was possible to catch such a stupendous number of rats : this is not so surprising when we learn that a single female can produce from 60 to 90 young ones in a single breeding season, which lasts from February to July. Two litters have been found in one nest at the same time, one just able to walk and the other being suckled by the indefatigable mother. If unchecked, the rice-field rat would be a real menace to Malaya's food supply, for it has been known to destroy one-sixth of the total crop in Krian. In that particular year. no less than a million gantangs of padi went to feed rats instead of human beings. COBRA HORROR. The (error of the rat world is the black cobra. which swarms in the padi fields during the breeding season, and those beautiful emerald-green fields that we see from the high-road conceal many a ghastly tragedy. Take for example the scene that met the eyes of a European officer who was making a special study of the rice-field rat when his coolies suddenly cut off the end of a bund, exposing a mother rat bravely standng over a nest containing 18 babies, with a large cobra on the edge of the nest ready to strike. Nature red in tooth and claw. . . . The rat makes complicated burrows, sometimes 60 feet long, in the earth bunds dividing the fields, and in order to escape from snakes he almost always constructs an exit below water level, so that he can swim to safety when hard-pressed. Some of the burrows will he carried as far as three or four yards horizontally below wat er level. When the padi fields are dry, however, the majority of the rats leave the earth bunds and make long, shallow burrows outside. Tins makes possible the use of a very simple type of trip. It consists merely of a short length of bamboo placed in a runway. The rat regards it as part of the runway and spends the night in it. The next morning the trapper approaches quietly, plugs both ends of the bamboo with a handful of grass, and the rat is caught. But it is advisable to use a good thick handful of grass, leaf the tenant of the trap should happen to be a cobra ! Who Was It? However strongly we may disagree with the Colonial Office assumption that a sound knowledge of Darkest Africa is an essential qualification for appointment to the Malayan Bench, we must at least admit that the method of appointment is better than it used to be. Sir Chartres Biron is no doubt pulling the long bow in the story reprinted below (from his book Without Prejudice) but it is a good story, just the same ; Once at Honmburg, where we wore taking the waters. I met (Carson walking in the morning at the Wells. He seemed a little distrait, and I asked if anything was wrong. "I have had a very disagreeable letter from tins fellow Chamberlain." (He was then Colonial Secretary). "What was it? I ventured to ask. ‘ Well was the answer ," sometime ago a man wrote to me and asked for a recommendation as he was applying to be made Chief Justice of some Colony in the tropics. did not know the man but I saw he had a good Irish name, and thought he must be good enough for the tropics: I wrote one. Chamberlain now writes, 'My dear Carson. who is this fellow you recommended as a Chief Justice? He landed in the Colony three weeks ago drunk, and he is not sober yet.' This is a disagreeable letter to write to a man." he complained. As indeed it was. —' ANAK SINGAPURA' in the Straits Times. Polygamy Tabu—So Native Killed His Wife. There was much criticism and bickering at the beginning of the year when the N. Guinea marriage laws were amended to make it impossible for a native to contract a European or Christian marriage. In introducing the bill, the Government Secretary (Mr. H. H. Page) said that the majority of natives were not able yet to understand the obligations of matrimony. The Rat Menace in Padi Fields. The following extract from ‘Anak Singa- pura’s’ column in the Straits Times throws an interesting light on some aspects of a problem which, in Sarawak, is always with us, and for which no effective solution appears to be in sight. The havoc wrought by rats in the Baram padi fields this year has been so serious that Mr. E. Banks, the Curator, Sarawak Museum, is at present on a visit to that district in order to make investigations, and. if possible, to devise some means of checking their depredations—ED. RATTUS RATTUS The other day we discoursed on Malayan locusts. To-day our subject shall be the rice-field rat. Most people do not know that there is a distinct rat of the rice-fields, but there is. and in some ways lie is a much more prepossessing animal than the other three Malayan species, the jungle rat, the house rat and the English wharf rat (an alien who has established himself in coastal towns in this country). Your rice-field rat. who rejoices in the name of Rattus Rattus Argentiventer, is one of the cleanest- feeding animals in existence, for its diet is mainly vegetarian, and the main item in that diet is succulent unripe padi, although it is pot. averse to an occasion grasshopper as well. The motorist, when driving through padi districts is. often sees places in the middle of the fields which look as though a runaway buffalo has trampled down the growing crop. But in nine times out of ten that is not the correct explanation; Rattus Rattus Argentiventer has been at work, gnawing through the stalks of the padi near then base. Here we see the intelligence of the rat demon¬ strated. for he damages only the centre of the field, invariably leaving a thick fringe of standing padi to provide cover and screen his burrows around the edges of the field. NINETY BABIES. People who like permutations and combinations should try them on the rut : they will he amazed at the result. No less than five and a half million rats were destroyed in six years in Krian, in an area of 30,000 acres during the 1925-30 campaign of the Agricultural Department. As every one of those dead rats earned a bounty of a Cent a tail, there must have been abounding cheerfulness in Krian at that time, especially among the Tamils, who. in addition to selling the tail, did not disdain to pop the rat into their curry. And what’s more, they ranged far and wide in their rat- hunting, so that although Government’s purpose was to kill off the rats in the rice-fields alone, it was in fact paying out money for a large proportion of rats which were living blameless lives elsewhere. But to return to the question of how it was possible to catch such a stupendous number of rats : this is not so surprising when we learn that a single female can produce from 60 to 90 young ones in a single breeding season. which lasts from February to July. Two litters have been found in one nest at the same time, one just able to walk and the other being suckled by the indefatigable mother. If unchecked, the rice-field rat would be a real menace to Malaya's food supply, for it has been known to destroy one-sixth of the total crop in Krian. In that particular year. no less than a million gantangs of padi went to feed rats instead of human beings. COBRA HORROR. The terror of the rat world is the black cobra. which swarms in the padi fields during the breeding season, and those beautiful emerald-green fields that we see from the high-road conceal many a ghastly tragedy. Take for example the scene that met the eyes of a European officer who was making a special study of the rice-field rat when his coolies suddenly cut off the end of a bund, exposing a mother rat bravely standng over a nest containing 18 babies, with a large cobra on the edge of the nest ready to strike. Nature red in tooth and claw. . . . The rat makes complicated burrows, sometimes 60 feet long, in the earth bunds dividing the fields, and in order to escape from snakes he almost always constructs an exit below water level, so that he can swim to safety when hard-pressed. Some of the burrows will he carried as far as three or four yards horizontally below wat er level. When the padi fields are dry, however, the majority of the rats leave the earth bunds and make long, shallow burrows outside. This makes possible the use of a very simple type of trap. It consists merely of a short length of bamboo placed m a railway. The rat regards it as ‘ part of the runway and spends the night in it. The next morning the trapper approaches quietly, plugs both ends of the bamboo with a handful of grass, and the rat is caught. But it is advisable to use a goodl thick handful of grass, lest the tenant of the trap, should happen to be a cobra ! Who Was It? However strongly we may disagree with the Colonial Office assumption that a sound knowledge of Darkest Africa is an essential qualification for appointment to the Malayan Bench, we must at least admit that the method of appointment is better than it used to be. Sir Chartres Biron is no doubt pulling the long bow in the story reprinted below (from his book Without Prejudice) but it is a good story, just the same ; Once at Homburg, where we wore taking the waters. I met Carson walking in the morning at the Wells. He seemed a little distrait. and I asked if  anything was wrong. "I have had a very disagreeable letter from tins fellow Chamberlain.’' (He was then Colonial Secretary). "What was it?" I ventured to ask. "Well, was the answer, -sometime ago a man wrote to me and asked for a recommendation as he was applying to be made Chief Justice of some Colony in the tropics. I did not know the man but I saw ho had a good Irish name, and thought he must be good enough for the tropics: so I wrote one. Chamberlain now writes, 'My dear Carson. who is this fellow you recommended as a Chief Justice? He landed in the Colony three weeks ago drunk, and he is not sober yet.' This is a disagreeable letter to write to a man." he complained. As indeed it was. —‘ANAK SINGAPURA in the Straits Times. Polygamy Tabu—So Native Killed His Wife. There was much criticism and bickering at the beginning of the year when the N. Guinea marriage laws were amended to make it impossible for a native to contract a European or Christian marriage. In introducing the bill, the Government Secretary (Mr. H. H. Page) said that the majority of natives were not able yet to understand the obligations of matrimony, In the Supreme Court last month, an interesting case showed the significance ascribed by natives to marriages made according to mission rites. A unlive, Sangar, was charged with wilfully kill- ing his wife. He explained, as his defence, that he wanted to take another woman as his spouse, but having been married by a missionary was unable to do so. He told the court that he solved the problem by murdering his wife ! Sangar was sentenced to death. —Pacific Islands Monthly. First Division News. SEPTEMBER. The following are extracts from the report of the Resident, First Division : — ' I visited the 7th mile bazaar on September 1st, together with the Assistant Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, to discuss the proposed bazaar scheme with Mr. William Tan, who owns much of the property affected. Mr. Tan agreed to co-operate. "On the 4th I visited Sedan with Mr. T. A. Reid of the Public Works Department; the contractor for the new police barracks appears to be getting on well with the preliminary work, and the frame¬ work should be up before the end of the month. ‘ On 14th I left at 6 a.m. to proceed to Nanga Tuang, Samarahan, via the 27th mile, Simang- gang Road, where 1 met the District Officer, Serian; from there we proceeded down river in the m.l. Vava, arriving at Nanga Tuang at 11 p.m. I discussed the proposed bazaar with the local traders, who agreed to build provided some restriction could be placed on boat-hawkers, of whom there are a great number in the district. I left at 2 p.m. by m.l. Vava, and using Loba Gong arrived at Pending at 4 p.m. "The Lands and Surveys Department com¬ pleted a plan of the 10th mile bazaar which I had asked for. and the state of affairs there turned out to be worse than anticipated; grants issued in 1917 conditional on shophouses being built within eighteen months had not been complied with, sheds had been erected on a road reserve, pig-ponds had been dug close up to the backs of the houses, and even on the road reserve. Notices of re-entry on some of the grants have been issued, but it will take a long time to clean up the bazaar as a whole." Thirty-four civil and sixty-five criminal cases came before the Kuching courts during September. The sentence of death passed upon Jeti alias Liang alias Linggi (Dayak) for the murder of Ah Seng (Hylam) and his wife Tek (Dayak), was carried out-on September 12th, 1936. On September 7th a verdict of suicide during temporary insanity was recorded at an inquiry into the death of Kung Ah Kim, a prisoner, who hanged himself in the General Hospital. The District Officer, Kuching, records with regret the deaths of Haji Mohamad Rais, Datu Imam Tua. and Mohamad Atay bin Wahap, Tua Kampong of of No. 2 Kampong, Kuching. Haji Mohamad Rais was appointed Datu Imam on June 24th. 1907, after serving some fifteen years as Tua Kampong in Sibu. On February 7th, 1925. he retired from active participation in the Govern¬ ment but continued to draw his salary and allowance as a member of the Supreme Council until his death on September 24th. Mohamad Atay, who died on September 20th, was appointed Tua Kampong in 1924. A scheme for the future development of the villages at Bako. Goebilt, Muara Tetas and Sautu- bong was submitted to the Lands and Surveys Department, and the areas are now being surveyed. During the month a report was received that thousands of caterpillars were destroying the young padi in the vicinity of the 21st mile, Penrissen Road. Steps were taken immediately to exterminate these pests, whose depredations extended over an area of about fifty acres. Unfortunately the Dayaks set up their pantang signs before the whole, area had been sprayed, and the Agricultural Department had to discontinue operations. It has since been decided, however, to disregard all such pantang in order that measures may be taken to prevent these pests spreading into other padi farms. The District Officer. Kuching, paid a routine visit to Lundu during the month. A very enjoyable regatta was held at this station on the morning of September 19th. There was no lack of entries and all the races were well contested. A sports, meeting had been arranged for the after¬ noon, but owing to heavy rain, it was feared that the meeting would have been to be postponed. Early in the afternoon, however, large crowds. undeterred by the • downpour, assembled, and all the events were Carried out. Every village from Telok Serabang to Bako and Stungkor was well represented, and the proceedings were heartily enjoyed by all communities, though one or two muttered protests were heard when almost every race was won by boats and crews of Kampong Salak. H.M.S. Herald arrived at Pending on. September 25th and left on the 29th. Entertainments arranged for the ship's company included hockey. football and cricket matches against Kuching teams. One flying-boat of N.o. 205 Squadron. Royal Air Force, conveying Air Commodore S. W. Smith, O.B.E., R.A.F., alighted at Pending on September 30th. This being Air Commodore Smith’s last visit to Sarawak, an official reception was arranged. Visitors to Kuching during the month included Dr. A. D. Hutchison, Mr. and Mrs. I. S. Ham¬ mond. Miss F. A. Putnam and Mr. Jan Jacob de Boer. The District Officer, Bau, states that there was no serious crime in his district during the month. 442 persons were treated and 18 N.A.B injections were given during September at the Bau Govern¬ ment dispensary. Four persons were treated by the Dresser for poisoning,—the after-effects of a heavy meal of mushrooms; after some six hours of unconsciousness, they recovered. Dahan Rubber Estates, Ltd., harvested 17.500 lbs. of dry rubber. Rainfall at Bau was 6.18 inches, and at Dahan 8.81 inches. The following table gives the individual output of gold from the various mines for August, 1936 :— The Native Officer, Lundu, records with deep regret the death of Orang Kaya Lehan of Pueh, which took place on September 27th after a long illness. This Orang Kaya served Government for. twenty-five years with loyalty, and was entitled to receive his long service decoration on the 26th; unfortunately the decoration did not arrive in time for delivery. On the morning of September 19th a regatta was held al Lundu, while land sports and football took place in the afternoon. Entries for most of the events exceeded expectations, and a very large crowd witnessed the proceedings. The District Officer, Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, very kindly presented the regatta and spurts prizes. At night a dinner was held in the Kubu to which about forty persons sat down. It was also decided to hold a bangsawan after the dinner, but unfortunately heavy rain came down and the performance had to be postponed until the following night. All natives in the Sadong district have been busy planting out. A very severe storm struck the coast at the beginning of the month and at Sebandi over thirty fruit trees in the kampong were blown down, and three Malay houses were completely destroyed, Fortunately there were no serious accidents. The District Officer, Serian and Samarahan, states that more applications for coconut planting at Kuala Sadong and along the coast were received during September. The applications by Sampun Dayaks needed further investigation, so the Native Officer visited that kampong during the month and had not returned by the end of the. month. A number of judgment summons were issued against quit rent defaulters and a threat to auction their gardens made nearly all pay up. ST. THOMAS’ SCHOOL JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS. SATURDAY. OCTOBER 3RD. SPORTS. Saturday, October 3rd, was a day memorable not only to those who are under the roof of the school, but also because it was a day full of lively amuse¬ ment and excitement for those who wore there to witness, or to participate in, the proceedings of the day on which the school, with the support of the old hoys, observed its Golden Jubilee celebrations. Since the early morning the school playing field was seen to be beautifully bedecked with flags and brightly coloured streamers that fluttered in the morning breeze, and to have running tracks and hurdles well arranged, all of which bespoke the holding of a sports meeting and other forms of entertaining displays. An artistic and  charac¬ teristic porch was erected at the entrance to the field ; the grandstand, too, which was built by the side of the play-ground, was fittingly decorated with palms and greenery of all descriptions, suggesting obviously the perpetual freshness and increasing progress of the old school After noon spectators began to pour from all directions into that section of the town where the playing field is situated and to gather themselves in crowds by the hundreds on the surrounding hill¬ slopes and on the roadside in eager expectation to view the sports. Likewise, the stand for the guests was soon filled to overflowing. At a little past one in the afternoon the events as set forth in the programme were kept going in an orderly manner under a brilliant sky. The spoils included the ordinary track and field events with a number of amusing races besides, such as two-in-a-sack race and bun-and-lemonade. also a few daylight fire-works. The invitation girls’ events added much “spice” to the programme. All the events were very keenly contested, and many good athletic attempts were accomplished which are a great credit to the young amateur competitors. The spectators were kept amused and interested from beginning to end, and everything was so well arranged that there was no undue delay or dull moments. Unfortunately a downpour of rain fell half-way through the programme, hut this unpleasant natural phenomenon was seemingly unobserved and tanfelt by the performers and spectators alike. The officials stood in the rain like stone pillars, or otherwise stalked about the place like ducks, apparently enjoying it all the more. Among the distinguished guests were His High¬ ness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne, who arrived at the scene before the rain had quite stopped. After alighting at the porch they were welcomed and afterwards conducted to the pavilion by Archdeacon Hollis, the Principal of the school. Upon their arrival at the stand the Sarawak Anthem was played and the royal ensign was unfurled. After a thrilling and hard fight in a tug-of-war between the present and old boys of the school, which was enthusiastically backed by supporters of the rival teams, the Dayang. at the request of Mr. Tan Sum Quart, very graciously gave away the prizes to the victors of the day Before the crowd dispersed three hearty cheers rang out from the youthful throats of the boys for His Highness the Rajah, followed by three others for His Highness the Tuan Muda and the Dayang Anne. At HOME. At the conclusion of the sports the guests proceeded to an “At Home” given by the Principal and Staff of the school in the boarding houses. Owing to the wet weather the tea and other refreshments were served indoors contrary to what was originally planned, and due to the same reason the number of guests present was much smaller than what was anticipated. All those who took courage to he there, however, were justly rewarded by the kind reception which they received from their hosts and the timely refreshment of which they partook on the lavishly laid tables. During the reception the Constabulary Band played lively airs which were appreciated by all. DINNER. On the same night at 8 o'clock, the old boys of the school gave a Chinese Dinner in honour of the school Jubilee in the school Assembly Hall where 280 persons were present. Besides His Lordship the Bishop of Labuan and Sarawak, the Arch¬ deacon of Sarawak, Members of the Community of the Resurrection. European and Asiatic Missionaries and members of the staffs of St. Thomas' and St. Mary's Schools, the following distinguished guests were present :—His Highness the Tuan Muda, the Dayang Anne, Mr. Anthony Brooke, the Resident and Mrs. Dick, the Secretary for Internal Affairs and the Chief Justice. One interesting thing worthy of comment is that the Malay old boys and their friends also joined in this unique function, being served separately with Malay food. The Constabulary Band and the string band rendered by the Quop old boys played selections during the dinner. Tn spite of the huge number of diners, the servers and cooks managed to cope with their work in applepie order without any impediment. Soon after the dinner was over, Mr. Tan Sum Guan, who presided at the meeting, proposed the toast of His Highness the Rajah, which was drunk in a loyal and fitting manner. He next gave a speech, as follows "Your Highness, Mr. Brooke, Dayang, Your Lordship. Ladies and Gentlemen. “On behalf of the old boys of St. Thomas’ School I have to thank you one and all most sincerely for your kind response to their invitation on the occasion of the celebration of the Golden Jubliee of their school. We are especially glad and honoured to have with us to-night His Highness the Tuan Muda and his family. “Actually the school has been established for more than 80 years, for Bishop MacDougall, the first missionary to come to this country. arrived here in the year 1848, and it was probably a few years thereafter that the school started its life in small way. The celebration that is taking place to-day really refers to the age of the present main building of the school. "From a mere handful of boys at the commence¬ ment it has grown to be the largest school in this country with about 480 boys on the roll. In addition to this number, there are at present, I understand. 165 little boys, who are under the charge of Miss Andrews in St. Mary’s School. In order to make the old boys realise what the S .P. G. Mission has contributed to their education, I think it is not out of place to make the following references. "Perhaps most of you are not aware of what the Mission has expended on its work in Borneo. I cannot go into figures now, but it is safe to say that in the last 80 years a sum of more than four million dollars must have been sent from England to support the work of the Diocese of Labuan and Sarawak. Even with all this monetary assistance from England. the school would not have been able to stand on its feet, had it not been for the valuable support from His Highness the Rajah and his Government. who arc always liberal in helping the school with their grants-in-aid. “All the boys of St. Thomas’ School, past and present, therefore owe a deep debt of gratitude to both the Mission and to His Highness the Rajah, and it is my earnest hope that they will ever be mindful of the benefits derived by them and their children for their education. "Ladies and Gentlemen. I would now ask you all to join me in drinking to the health of His Highness the Tuan Muda.” Haji Bol Hassan on behalf of Datu Shah-Bandar, Data Amar and other old Malay boys of the school, then stood up to express their gratitude for what the school had done for them, speaking both in English and Malay. In reply to the above His Highness the Tuan Muda stated that he was very pleased to find such a large cosmopolitan gathering at the dinner, which went to show how friendly the old boys of the school were keeping with everybody in the country He said that the school had certainly done good work and is still continuing to make further progress He wished it every success in the future. The Resident, Mr. W. F. Dick, next proposed the toast of the school. This was drunk with great enthusiasm. He particularly mentioned the name of Archdeacon Hoilis, the Principal, as the person who by his constant hard work had brought the standard of education to the high level that had now been attained by the school. The Bishop then thanked His Highness the Tuan Muda and the Resident for the good wishes expressed by them. He also referred to Archdeacon Hollis as the man who was responsible for the progress of the school. Ho said that for the Jubilee Fund the Committee originally expected to raise a sum of $15,000, but up to date the donations received from the old boys and well-wishers totalled a little more than $5,000 only. As the list is still open, he hoped that those friends who have not yet subscribed would be pleased to contribute something towards the fund. Mr. E. W. Howell. Chairman of the organizing Committee, then rose to give a toast to the guests coupled with the name of the Chief Justice. This was responded to heartily by the old boys present. In reply to the above the Chief Justice said that a short time after his arrival in this country he was asked to serve on the Board of Management as one of the Members of the Committee , it had always been a pleasure to him to be associated with the school in that capacity. To him the night’s function was indeed a double pleasure, as his age happened to coincide with that of the school. Archdeacon Hollis then expressed his sincere thanks for what had been spoken about his work in the school. He ended his speech by requesting everyone to repair to the playing field, where it was proposed to hold other entertainments. VARIETY ENTERTAINMENT. The dinner was followed by a display of fireworks, Torch Drill and Gymnastic Display by the school¬ boys, Malay Ronggeng and Dayak Ajat, all these entertainments taking place on the field. The attractive arch bearing the school colours and symbols and the grandstand were beautifully illuminated with coloured lights, and this spectacular scene drew a tremendous crowd of interested sight¬ seers. The whole show was much appreciated by the guests, and was regarded by all as a filling commemoration of the Jubilee year of the St. Thomas' School. St. Thomas’ School. JUBILEE MEMORIAL FUND. The total has this montie reached $5,799.46 but this is still some way off what we aimed at collecting. If every old boy of St. Thomas’ or friend of the School who has not yet sent a donation would forward something, however small, we should be within sight of the $8,000 which we hoped to set aside for the Bursary Fund, before the end of the year. The Committee gratefully acknowledge the following donations received or promised up to and including October 27th, 1936. St. Joseph’s School Athletic Sports. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17TH. This meeting was held on the playing fields behind the school from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. and. although the weather was as bad as it could be for the last hour, the greater part of the programme was carried out in bright, and very hot, sunshine. A large number of guests arrived and were accommodated under kajang shelters; two bars and a tea room kept everyone amply supplied with refreshments, and the Constabulary Band played up to their usual excellent standard during the afternoon. His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne arrived on the field at 4.15 p.m. Two of the records set up hist year were beaten, and one equalled, Lim Bong Kheng jumped ‘20 feet 4 inches in the Long Jump and Assan, a Davak boy from bintulu. surprised us all in the Pole Vault by beating Vincent Yong and the previous year’s record holder. Lucas Tan. clearing 9 feet 7 inches. In Putting the Shot Vincent Yong equalled the record of 27 feet 5 inches. One of the most successful events was the Tournament or “Cock Fighting", in which small boys, mounted on the backs of older boys, contrived to hurl their opponents to the ground. The final victory of Wee Chong Kee. probably the lightest of the jockeys, was very popular with the spectators. At the conclusion of the prize-giving even the usual short speeches would have been inaudible in the heavy rain. One of the junior boys presented a bouquet to Davang Anne, and Mgr. Hopfgartner said a few words of (hanks to His Highness the Tuan Muda for attending the Meeting and to the Dayang Anne for kindly consenting to distribute the prizes, particularly in the appalling weather which was obviously threatening before their arrival at the field. The following is a list of the winners of each event; the Junior Table Tennis, Old Boys’ and Veterans’ races were abandoned owing to rain : — Chinese National Day. SPORTS MEETING IN KUCHING. In celebration of the Chinese National Day, Double Tenth, the local Chinese Community held their annual Sports Meet on Saturday, October 10th, 1936, on the S.P,G. ground which was kindly placed at their disposal by the Principal of St. Thomas' School. The programme started off in the morning at 9 o’clock when the formal opening ceremony began with the singing of the Chinese National Song by the contestants. The Vice-Chairman of the Organizing Committee, Mr. Ng Siak Kiong, next addressed the gathering, after which the com¬ petitors paraded around the field headed by the Hokien School Band. A group of 50 senior boys smartly dressed in white uniforms performed a new kind of mass drill which took the form of the Chinese art of self- defence,   and    which   presented    a    brilliant    spectacle in    the    body-movements.    This     item      attracted      a good deal of interest among the onlookers. Most of the Junior Events were run off in the morning; the kiddies displayed keen enthusiasm in the sprints, and finished up very close in the short distant races. The   afternoon    programme,   which   commenced     at two o’clock, took place without any hitch.     although the entries for the Girls' Section, Division A, were smaller in number than those of last year. AU the senior competitors had put out (heir best efforts in both field and track events, and records set up by them were gratifying and better than previous ones in spite of the unfavourably soft condition of the ground. As the programme was half-way through, the weather became most threatening, but fortunately the imminent downpour suddenly cleared up. The resultant coolness helped to increase the zeal of the competitors and the interest of the spectators. His Highness the Tuan Muda arrived sharp at 4 p.m. and was received by Mr Tun Sum Guan and Mr. Tan Bak Lim (Chairman) at the gate, and afterwards by Mr. Tan Kui Choon, the Hon. Secretary. On taking his seat at the Grandstand, His Highness was greeted by three loyal bows from the 300 boys, who then gave a mass exhibition of physical drill. These boys were all dressed in white and blue, which are the Chinese National Colours. Among the thousands of interested spectators, the following were present The Venerable the Archdeacon of Sarawak, the Acting Government Secretary, the Secretary for Internal Affairs, the Chief Justice, the Acting Secretary for Chinese Affairs, Mr. G. T. Bates and the DAT Amar. At the conclusion. Mr. Tan Sum Guan asked His Highness to give away the Championship Trophies to the following athletes who had scored the highest points in each division Mr. Khan Ah Chong was then asked to give a speech, which was replied to by His Highness the Tuan Muda who expressed his entire agreement with what Mr. Khan Ah Chong had said about the desirability of creating an esprit de corps among the youths in order to turn them eventually into good citizens. He was much impressed, he said, at the display of the Mass Physical Drill, which was performed by 300 boys, who, he under¬ stood, came from five different schools; such good co-operation among this number of schools was really a thing worthy of great admiration. The meeting concluded with three hearty cheers for His Highness the Rajah and three for His Highness the Tuan Muda. Cricket. A very pleasant game, the finish of which was unfortunately spoilt by rain, was played on Sunday, 18th October/ between the Nondescripts and a European XI. As usual the game started late, a few of the European team not even extend¬ ing to their opponents, who were all ready and waiting at 9 o’clock, the slight-courtesy of turning up in time. The game eventually started at 9.25 a.m. The Nondescripts hatted first and runs came steadily, Soh Fu and Baptist shewing good form. After 50 had been hoisted with only four wickets down Cargill took some quick wickets and the innings closed after an hour and a quarter’s interesting play. Hammond though not flattered by his figures was the best of the European bowlers, some of the others seemed to rely on the great Goddess Luck rather than the more orthodox means of length and finger-spin. The Europeans started off confidently and were well on their way to victory when rain came on heavily. Another ten minutes would probably have, sufficed co finish off the match at the rate runs were coming at. the close, so the late-comers above mentioned had the satisfaction of knowing they had robbed their side of a well-deserved victory. The Nondescripts must be congratulated on the great improvement in their form and Philip Soh Fu and others who have worked so hard to weld them into a side are deserving of great credit. If one might venture a criticism it might be suggested that their running between the wickets and their returning from the field might be improved. The catch which dismissed Pollard was a very well taken one. We look forward to many more just as pleasant games in the future. Second Division News. SEPTEMBER. The. Acting Resident, Second Division, states that two separate reports have been received from Malay traders at Lubok Antu, who have recently been trading in Dutch territory, intimating that some of the rebels are still in Dutch territory; there may be some element of truth in these rumours, and the Dutch authorities have been informed. On the 3rd Mr. Outfield, Acting Resident, left with the Resident, Mr. P. M. Adams, on a visit to Saratok. The Officer-in-Charge, Kalaka. was met at Kabong and accompanied the party to Saratok. All Penghulus were present. It was noted in the Krian that most of the Dayaks were taking very late interest in the preparation of their farms this year, partly, owing to the number of deaths that have occurred from an epidemic Which would appear to be influenza. It is also considered that the Krian arc very well off, and that rubber occupies much of their time to the detriment of their farming, although it is seldom that really bad crops arc obtained. The District Officer, Simanggang, reports that Enggat, a Dayak of Rumah Sampar, Munggu Sawa, Lingga, seriously wounded another Dayak named Lachong of the same house when assaulted by assaulting him with his parang. Enggat is now on remand and also under medical observation. He was discharged a year or two ago from the Constabulary for being mentally unsound. Good burns have been reported throughout the Simanggang district, and in many places rice has been planted and is reported to be growing well. There is every prospect of a good harvest. Fruit trees arc flowering, and there is promise of an average crop. Natives in the Simanggang district have been tapping very little during the month, owing to farming, consequently the bazaar rubber stocks have been small. On the 7th Mr. Shave started collecting figures for experimental tapping and production on one group of gardens at Sabu and at another near the hospital at Simanggang. One small central smoke¬ house has been erected for each group. Mr. Shave proceeded to Belong on the 12th and returned on 18th. Up to date there have been no applications to replant rubber. The m.l. Rentis started leaking badly on the 8th and 9th on returning from Saratok. On the 10th the engineer reported that the white metal pro¬ peller bush had worn and that the propeller shaft was almost worn away at one place. The Rentis was therefore towed to Lingga by the m.l. Sin Kim Suah on the 11th and thence to Kuching by H.H.M.Y. Maimuna on the 20th, for docking and repairs. At 8 a.m. on September 26th, His Highness the Rajah's birthday, a Constabulary Guard of honour gave the royal salute at Simanggang, which was also sounded on the bugle. A salute of 7 guns was then fired. The District Officer. Saribas, states that as in August, comparatively few Dayaks visited the station during September. Exemption and Door Tax collections for 1936 have been good, and but little was outstanding at the end of this month. Land revenue has not come in as well as was expected, but a determined attempt to collect all outstanding dues is being made and it is hoped that after the planting season an increase in revenue will be noticeable. Towards the end of the month the burning of hill farming land in the Saribas district commenced in earnest, and columns of smoke were to be seen in all parts of the Ulu. The results of the bums have not yet been received, but some anxiety is felt as rain fell heavily in the Ulu on the 27th, 29th and 30th and appeared to interrupt burns that were in progress. The following are extracts from a report by Mr. J. C. H. Barcroft. District Officer, Saribas, on a recent tour :— “On August 30th, accompanied by Abang Taha, Native Officer, Pengarah Isek, Penghulu Sujang and Abang Spawi. Village Constable. I left Debak for Dayak houses in the Lakis district. “Heavy rain in the morning delayed my departure and made walking—along greasy tree trunks.—anything but pleasurable. The houses in this district are close together and no less than seven were visited this day. The Dayaks them¬ selves were most hospitable, indeed excessively so, a fact which much delayed our progress and resulted in our party not reaching Muton, where we spent the night, till after dark. “It appeared to me that these Dayaks were well off for farming land, and indeed that several other houses could easily be accommodated in the vicinity. However, it is unlikely that up¬ river Dayaks would consider moving here as there is an entire absence of decent clear rivers or springs, and the country generally is unattractive. “On the 31st we made our way by a circuitous route to N. Inar, arriving there at dusk. A more direct route was possible but I had not been in this district before and was                      anxious to visit as many houses as possible,                    and to see for myself what farming land                          was available. Generally speaking, there is                        a sufficiency of swamp land, but most of the                 hilly land is planted with rubber or is sour                       and unsuitable for padi cultivation; on the whole           there is no Shortage of farming land in this dis-               trict and a few extra doors might be accom¬                 modated here without difficulty. On the 1st we       proceeded via Sungei Bayor and Pek to the Ulu         Rimbas. arriving there at noon. As some of the              older members of our party had felt the strain                    of 2 1/2 days hard walking, I decided to spend the          night al Rumah Awan, Ulu Rimbas. In the              afternoon a pig hunt was organized, and if we              failed to kill, at least we had a good run for our              money. and on the way home one of our party                 was fortunate enough to shoot a kijang. which          provided a most welcome addition to the larder. “That night Dayaks from other houses in the neighbourhood collected at Rumah Awan. Several small cases were settled and the intricacy of Rubber Restriction were discussed into the early hours of the morning. “The following day we proceeded overland to N. Ulai, arriving there about four in the afternoon. The day’s walk was over low hills in fanning land, and as we proceeded further down river I observed a shortage of sizable timber and a general deterioration in farming land. “On the 3rd we proceeded down river by boat, but within half an hour of starting we were brought to a dead stop by a solid block of driftwood, and were forced to abandon our boat and proceed on foot to Debak. At this time of the year the upper Rimbas, where still tidal, cannot be navigated even by the smallest of boats. Several attempts have been made to induce the natives to clear the river of driftwood but without any success. Apparently they are deterred not so much by the magnitude of the task as by superstition: the story goes that many years ago the Balan Dayaks sent an expedition to attack the Malays and Dayaks in the Rimbas. This attack was defeated by the wisdom of a certain Malay, who, invoking supernatural powers, succeeding in filling the Riinbas with driftwood and thus preventing the pirates reaching their objective. To this day both Malays and Dayaks believe that any attempt to remove this driftwood must result in misfortune and probably death for those who undertake the task. “On the 4th I returned overland to Spaoh and boated up to Betong.' The Officer-in-Charge, Kalaka, reports that in the Resident's Court on September 5th Lumpoh anak Mut and Aban anak Gellaw were sentenced to two years R.T. each under Section 436 of the Penal Code. In the District Court. Saratok, Lim Guan Seng and Ong Boon Thay, both Hokien coolies of Local Sago factory, were charged under the Opium Regulations. The former was lined $25 or in default ‘2 months for smoking Government chandu without a pass-book, and was sentenced to six weeks’ R.T. for offering an illegal gratification; the latter was fined $25. During the month a number of up-river hawkers were prosecuted for breaches of Local Orders, namely building langkaus at Dayak landing stages for the purpose of trading, and fined $5 each. Two cases under the Rubber Restriction Order, viz., failing to surrender rubber Census forms and illicit tapping of rubber trees during holiday, vide Notifications 429 and 579/36 respectively, were beard. The accused in the first case was fined $5 and costs and the second acquitted. When Penghulu Uudum arrived at meet the Resident at the beginning of he apologised for his sketchy attire Saratok to the month and then explained how his prahu had been capsized by the bore at Rantau Kamidan, about an hour's paddle above the bazaar. The Dayaks say they do not remember ever encountering a bore of such magni¬ tude so far up river; the river has been exceptionally low owing to the prolonged drought. Third Division News. SEPTEMBER. A Hokien Chinese named Bay Mah Tee was sentenced in the Resident’s Court, Sibu, to five years imprisonment for having committed house¬ breaking by night in order to commit theft. This man. a coolie engaged by the contractor effecting repairs to Song Fort, climbed into the Fort on the night of July 21st, 1936, opened the safe by means of a wire or skeleton key, and thus obtained Government cash amounting to $815. He was traced through an informer, however, and cash to the value of $778.80 was recovered. On September 1st a Dayak named Layang was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment, subject to confirmation by the Supreme Court, for the attempted murder of a Foochow Chinese at Pasai, in the Igan river. Layang pleaded that the reason for his crime was a dream in which a spirit appeared and threatened him with insanity if he did not take a life: thia desire to kill, he stated, was supplemented by the fact that when he saw rhe Chinese he felt a sudden urge to kill him. He and the Chinese were strangers to each other. It is possible that Layang’s real motive was robbery. An inquest was hold, at Igan, into the death of              Haji Matassan, Tua Kampong of Igan. The deceased, who was an old man, was found            lying unconscious on a bridge, with bruises on his           head, having apparently fallen and injured himself          while returning, at night from a panggilan. He                  died shortly afterwards. A verdict of death by misadventure was recorded. Accompanied by Datu Abang Haji Mohidin, the        District Officer, Sibu, proceeded to Igan in s.l.             Chamois on September 9th in connection with the          election of a new Tua Kampong. The election                   took place on the 10th. resulting in Smail bin                   Musim being offered the appointment. Five extra Rubber Restriction Inspectors were engaged for the Third Division as from September 1st, and one clerk Two Rubber Restriction Checker-Supervisors arrived from Kuching, and were provided with a staff of six checkers each, locally, and have now commenced operations at Kanowit and Engkilo, where they are checking the production of selected holdings. During the month, five convictions were obtained in the Courts for planting rubber under Order No. R—3, and 19 convictions for offences committed by rubber dealers under Order No. R—4. With the increased staff it has Loen possible to increase the number of patrols, and a considerable amount of useful work has been done, particularly in connection with rubber stencils. Enormous numbers of incorrect or illegible "home-made’' copies of original stencils are in use locally. A number of prosecutions were instituted, and as a result holders of badly made or incorrect stencils have voluntarily appeared in large numbers to exchange these. The Divisional Forest Officer returned to Sibu on September 15th after having accompanied Mr. R. Gotte to the Pala Wong district. Mr. Gotte has been engaged by Messrs, the Borneo Com- pany Ltd., to report on the forests of Sarawak. A small sawmill has been opened at Bukit Lan. The Divisional Forest Officer reports that it is of the usual haphazard variety, and the small engine used is continually giving trouble. Seventy tons of timber is being worked on the Bukit Lan reserve to be used on the roof of the new Sibu Hospital. The total Land ami Survey revenue for the Third Division for August amounted to $7,609.10 as compared with $8,428.99 for the corresponding month of the previous year. The collection for Sibu district for the month amounted to $2,071.72 shewing a decrease of approximately $1,698.23 as compared with the corresponding month of the previous year. 105 titles for 518 acres (approximate) were issued and forwarded to various stations, being 64 pay¬ able for 365 acres and 41 free for 153 acres. 60 titles for 587 acres (approximate) were can¬ celled consisting of 59 payable for 584 acres and 1 free land for 3 acres. The Assistant Superintendent of Lands left Sibu on the 9th to visit Dalat, Oya. Mukah, Balingian, and returned on the 16th. The survey of the Sibu Bazaar was completed during the month, but a number of titles on the Island still await survey On September 26th, HIs Highness the Rajah’s birthday, all Government offices at Sibu were closed, and the flagstaff and launches were 'dressed.' At 8.0 a.m. a salute of 21 guns was fired from the Fort Battery; at 9.0 a.m. a Guard of Honour under the command of Mr. W. L. P. Sochon, paraded at the Fort flagstaff. The District Officer. Mr. R. E. Le Sueur, in the absence of the Resident, inspected the Guard of Honour and then presented Long Service Deco¬ rations and medals. The presentation was followed by three cheers for His Highness tin? Rajah. All European Officers and their families were present as well as a large crowd representative of the Malay, Chinese and Dayak communities. Among visitors to Sibu during the month were Mr. A. Macpherson from Meluan. Mr. and Mrs. Kidd of Kanowit, the Rev. Father V. Shelley, Mrs. Goldie from Miri and Mr. Cordiner of the Sarawak Electricity Supply Company. During September, three Dayaks were convicted of tuba fishing in the Sarikei river and were sentenced to two months’ imprisonment. An outbreak of influenza and pneumonia in Rumah Sampai, near Selalang, was responsible for ten deaths. No reports were received from the Penghulu, though the Dayaks had deserted their village in fear of the epidemic. The Ravelling Dresser visited the village and distributed medicines. The travelling Dresser also visited the ulu Bina- tang, where Penghulu Ajah was suffering from dysentery. The District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports that although Dayaks were supposed to be busy burn¬ ing and planting up their farms, a good number of them found time to come down for cartridges, and other minor matters. An interesting case of selabat was brought down from the ulu Sarikei. Two Dayaks who had a petty dispute about the ownership of a fighting cock refused to bring their case before the Tuai or Penghulu, and insisted on drinking each other's blood from incisions in the arm. The expected result of this procedure was the speedy death of the man who was not telling the truth, but neither party has as yet shown any ill effects. Both parties were warned against repeating such practices, and were ordered to deposit pledges for good behaviour. Penghulu Umpor, of the Julau-Sungai, now under control of this district, made his first official visit to Sarikei and reported tuba fishing in the Sungai. This case will be heard on the spot by the Dislrict Officer on his visit co the Sungai in early November. Very little pepper is being shipped from Sarikei and Binatang owing to continued low prices. The District Officer, Kapit, reports that on September 2nd Penghulu Manok Manchal was fined $100 for holding a tuba fishing; this news has now spread round the whole district and is having an excellent effect. On September 19th two Chinese were fined $50 each at Kapit for being in possession of Govern¬ ment chandu, not being registered smokers or authorized agents. The Kayan wife of a Kapit Chinese trader was also fined $30 for being in possession of more than twice the amount of chandu last entered in her pass-book. In all these three cases the chandu was discovered in a boat en route, for Belaga where it is known that a con¬ siderable amount of illicit dealing in chandu takes place. Incidentally, the Chinese admitted that the chandu was brought up from Sibu on a launch, but they refused to divulge the name of the seller. A Sibu Hokien hawker was sentenced to four months’ imprisonment at Kapit for cheating, his method of operation being to accept monetary advances on a young child of his, promising to give the child in adoption and later refusing to do so; this happened both at Song and Kapit. The natural mother of the child, a Sibu Dayak, is now being sought for to come to some proper arrange¬ ment for its future. Penghulus Jugah, Sibat. Manok Manchal and Ugak visited Kapit during the month, and Peng¬ hulus Sirai, Briak and Bedimbab visited Song. Dayaks have almost finished planting out in the Kapit district and good reports have been received. Engkabang is flowering profusely, and high hopes of a bumper crop are entertained, although naturally prospects are uncertain as the fruit has not yet set. The following are extracts from a report by the District Officer, Kapit:— "During my tour of Penghulu Ansi's district I paid a visit to the camp of Mr. Gotte, the Borneo Co., Ltd., timber expert in Sungei Preraran Kiri, Ulu Sungei Merit. He reports chat so far prospects are excellent, and timber well above the average; keladan and kapor are present in great quantities, but unfortunately there is no keruing. At the time of my visit he was about to move camp to Nanga Tanyit. further up the Merit. I took Penghulu Ansi with me and several arrangements were made in connection with Mr. Gotte's labour force, now totalling 34 coolies. This venture of the B.C.L. is exciting great interest among the Dayaks, and I have been inundated with questions on the subject. It is Significant that even with burning and planting in progress, a period when normally labour is scarce, many applicants for work with the com¬ pany have had to be turned away.” In the course of a trip to the ulu, the District Officer, Kapit. and party found a large pig in midstream lifting attacked by a small crocodile about four feet long. The crocodile escaped, but the pig was speared, one boat being almost swamped during the excitement. There was little crime in the Nanga Meluan district during September. Nyanggau organised a big tuba fishing in the Poi, and all headmen con¬ cerned have been fined. The following are extracts from a report by the District Officer, Nanga Meluan :— ''Dayaks are busy burning, and those up river have started planting. The Dayak sawah farms round Kanowit were inspected. The two Dusun demonstrators have made specimen ploughs and have ploughed a demonstration plot near Rumah Empam; changkol’d farms will again be made in the Tuah and in the Kanowit. It is grati¬ fying to note that the Dayaks fully realise that a sawah farm cannot be made in a hurry, and are continuing to stump and to improve the drainage of their plots in addition to farming in the old way. The Dayaks who have taken up this method will be put into communal reserves, but it is a pity that they will not take out indi¬ vidual titles to their land. Those who have no 'pesaka' are being urged to take up these titles, but they are most reluctant to pay even 20 cents per acre quit rent for such land. "Security of tenure is essential to the success of this sawah padi farm experiment, and it seems impossible to convince the Dayaks of this. Until they learn from bitter experience the necessity of secured individual tenure they naturally will remain averse from adding to their taxation. "The process of learning will, I think, prove unpleasant both to the Dayaks and to the Adminis¬ tration, and for this reason I submit that it is to be regretted that free titles cannot be issued for permanently cultivated padi land as for sago. "Temporary married and bachelor quarters were built by Constabulary at Meluan, and a temporary house for the. dresser was built by the Village Constable. The difficulty of erecting permanent buildings at Meluan is very great. I strongly recommend that at present only temporary buildings be built. If three carpenters are engaged when sufficient timber to start building has been delivered, permanent bouses for the Junior Service could gradually be built as permanent necessity for them is proved, and I further recommend that this expenditure be spread over as long a period as may prove expedient. Until a road to Meluan from Binatang or Sarikei is built, heavy expenditure on development will prove to he ill-advised, except in the unlikely event of more Dayak unrest in the near future. "Meluan can justify its existence by insuring that there is no further unrest, but the Fort and garrison alone is sufficient to do this. If the intention is to start a station which will have a civilising influence on the Kanowit Dayaks, however, it must also become a trade-centre, and this it cannot be unless proper communications are provided.” In a storm of rare violence a big tree was blown down at Meluan. falling on the Constabulary bachelors’ temporary quarters. No lives were lost, though one man was hurt. Some damage was done to their private property. The price of sago at Mukah rose to 69 cents per pasu and maintained an average of 55 cents all the month. A bamboo groin was planted in the Mukah river at right angles to the bank above the blubor site erosion, and is reported to be diverting the current into midstream to a certain extent. Visitors to Mukah during September included Messrs. Cordiner and Bormond of the Sarawak Electricity Supply Co., Dr. De Raaf of Sarawak Oilfields, Ltd., Mr. S. G. Hansom, Assistant District Officer. Sibu, Mr. G. A. C. Field. Superin¬ tendent of Shipping, Sibu, Mr. G. Farelly, Superintendent of Surveys. Sibu, Mr. B. Summers, Superintendent of Lands, Sibu, Mr. J. C. B. Fisher, District Officer. Oya, Mr. F. H. Pollard, Secretary for Native Affairs and Mr. A. G. Taylor. Auditor. • The mail contractor started carrying mails to and from Sibu to Mukah from September 1st. This is a great benefit, as although Government and other launches have, as a matter of chance, plied fairly regularly with Sibu carrying visitors and officers on duty during the summer, this irregular service was unexpected in all cases, and cannot lie relied on. and during the landas is practically non existent. On September 10th, it was reported that Sebah binti Meh. a Melanau woman of Kampong Kuala, Oya, had been missing from her home all day. At 5 p.m.    her   body    was found  in    a ditch in Day’s     Road. At an inquest held on 11th a verdiet of death by                 heart failure caused by exhaustion was returned,            Deceased had been in failing health for some                  months and was considered by local people to be             "queer in the head.” The District Officer. Oya and Dalat. states that Penghulu Untol and T.R. Lumbok of the Ulu Oya reported at Dalat on September 16th that Rumah Lumbok had been burnt to the ground in August by the carelessness of a woman who upset a lamp at a time when the house was deserted. All the property of the sixteen doors is said to have been destroyed, but there was no loss of life. Untol reported all well in his district. Dayaks have had good burns in most cases and were busy planting, etc., during the month, Melanau fishing was in full swing, and quite good catches were obtained. Reports, from the Ulu Oya state that engkabang trees (illipe nuts) are flowering very well again this year. Melanaus who are owners of sago gardens were urged to clear their holdings of undergrowth, in order to give bears, pigs, etc., as little cover as possible. Some fifty vegetables plots of various sizes were laid out by the school-boys at Oya under the direction of Abang Dillah. Headmaster. These plots arc close to the school building, and great care has been taken to prepare the ground in the proper way. Seeds have been supplied and planted. The demonstration vegetable garden at Oya is doing satisfactorily, though it has been found necessary to use tuba to keep down worms and other pests. The price of raw sago in the Oya District reached the highest level of the year during September, the prices at Dalat being 75 cents per passu, and the Kut 85 cents. The amount of raw sago exported from the district showed an increase over the figures for last month, the amount being :— Total increase on the figures for last month—118 koyans. Five motor schooners, four motor launches, four sailing schooners and twenty-six bandongs cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 777 tons, an increase on the figures for last month of 108 tons. MUKAH. PRODUCE AND CRAFTS EXHIBITION 1936. This exhibition was held on the Padang at Mukah on His Highness the Rajah’s birthday, the principal objects being to encourage agriculture and lay its varied possibilities before local natives: to improve their stock by competition, example and the use of prize animals at stud; and to revive the many local arts, crafts and industries which are in danger of dying out in a bicycle-ridden age (the bicycles, incidentally, being usually ridden. by patchouli-scented youths with flapping trousers and dark spectacles, whose source of revenue is a mystery until one looks in the towkay's account book). Large crowds of kampong people and visitors came in the day before, and the Committee had a busy tune receiving the exhibits. In the evening the first of two free cinema shows was staged on the Padang, which was covered by a mass of spectators. On the morning of the "big day” huge crowds had re assembled on the Padang as early as 6.30 a.m., the crisp early morning sun flashing cheerfully on bright sarongs and on the gaily- coloured models, flowers and fruit which were being brought in for the show. Presently the burbling of the crowds, the quack¬ ing, gabbling and crowing of quantities of ducks, geese, fowls and turkeys died down, (yea, even the poultry fell silent) as a squad of the Sarawak Constabulary, under Inspector Abang Ali, came to the halt smartly in line opposite a special flag-staff in the centre of the show grounds. A word of command and the smart click of the "present” were heard, as punctually at 8.0 a.m. the flag was broken at the mast-head to the muffled roar of the guns firing the Royal Salute from Fort Burdett. The salute was taken by the District Officer, the band playing the Sarawak Anthem, followed by three hearty cheers for His Highness the Rajah, led by the Inspector. A moment's silence and the babble and burble of the crowd renewed itself and while the “hoi polloi” proceeded to admire the exhibits and spend their spare cents at the coconut shy and the hoop-la. the judges set about their unenviable task of judging no fewer than 405 very varied exhibits. The main exhibition shed (8O'xl5') was too small by half but everything was got in somehow, and there was still room to creep round the gang¬ ways. A long wide shelf bisected by a wall ran down the centre, underneath which were compart¬ ments wired in for poultry, each space being filled with brightly plunged and long-tailed game cocks, sleek hens, turkeys, geese, ducks and even a pair of white brok monkeys exhibited by Mr. Jack Douglas, Court. Writer, Dalat. The tuneful cacophony of the birds made con¬ versation difficult, but nevertheless added to the general atmosphere of ramai ramai. Above the cages the shelves were overflowing with huge striped pumpkins, clusters of fat purple egg plant, long streaky snake gourds, huge bunches of enormous bananas, rows of red pinang, greens of all sorts and colossal polished coconuts. krebang and keladek. etc. Further along were the models and carvings, occupying almost the whole length of one side of the shed by themselves. There were 56 entries of models and 27 of carvings, 27 frogs, rats, eats, crocodiles, monkeys, etc., perpetuated in wood, the palm for which went to Giyu of Dalat for two beautifully-worked idols two feet, high in natural light wood (varnished, they would be improved by linseed polish only). They were exhibited by Mr. Fisher, District Officer, Oya. The 2nd prize went to Ahmat bin Langun for a very if -like bird made of a buffalo horn. The 1st prize-winning model was a superb barong       made by Juragan Tuto of Mukah, in nature                    coloured wood (varnished) and complete down to                the smallest accessory including idus (net) baskers,          floats, anchors, paddles. boathook. and even the             crew’s rations. It is a great pity that most local model makers                and carvers use hideously clashing rods, greens,                and yellows, which, though making a fine splash                    of colour taken together in a show, look hideous     individually and are not true to life. This barong                  was a pleasing exception. The 2nd prize went to Zenui binti Hamdani for a most intricate working model suri tenun, or cloth-weaving loom. In addition, owing to the high quality and quantity of the remainder, 6 special prizes were awarded to some very neat model sago-working sheds and some model jerunai or sulong (commonly called totem poles). There were also some beautifully worked and polished specimens in the paddles section, at which local people (especially Dalat) excel. Also some very fine gold-threaded and locally worked sarongs, and other things too numerous to describe in detail. The Rev. Father Win. Boon took 1st prize for some hens' eggs the size of a duck’s best effort, and the quality of the poultry was astonishingly high considering the stringy walking skeletons that we always meet on the kampong toads and in the markets. Mr. Lau Theng Kheng of the District Office walked off with the 1st prize in the Melanau and Chinese poultry sections with two pairs of fine birds, and Mr. W. Chua Tamby took the 2nd prize for the Chinese breed section. In the Melanau breed section, the 2nd prize was shared by Mr. W. Chua Tamby and Tua Kampong Reba. Taken together, the whole lot made a very fine show, dozens of models and pots of flowers lining the gangways and every inch of Space being taken up. and there still being an overflow on the Padang. Some excellent sheet rubber was shown, the 1st prize being divided between Bian Seng and Bakir for some quite flawless amber-like sheets and some fine while lamanta won 1st and 2nd prizes for Kuna bin Budin and Seran (of Kampong Eward, Tillian). Mr. Ong Kee Hui, Agricultural Assistant, was in charge of a large number of most varied and interesting exhibits including a prize Berkshire Boar (which has been left behind for stud to improve local stock). The other exhibits of the Agricultural Department were housed in a special stall, and if the natives could only be interested (and they undoubtedly were in many cases) there appear to be great and varied opportunities dis¬ closed by these exhibits, among which were a model smoke house for rubber, a copra kiln and a full size "Night Ark" for poultry (in which great interest in being taken), huge round purple egg plants, enormous keladi, yams, krebang, and arrow-root; soap made in Sarawak by Mr. J. Scott and others, beautiful dahlias and seeds galore of coffee. tea. cotton. millets, tobacco and gingelly, etc.; sauces, oils, dyes, extracts, and apparently all the species of the East, grown or produced in Sarawak. Nearly all these seeds, vegetables, and models were kindly presented to the District Office by the Agricultural Department., and they arc being dis- tributed amongst Government Officers and the prison and school gardens, and some of the seeds and the models will he kept in stock for the use and edification of the above gardens and the public. The Honorary Secretary and Committee of the show would like to take this opportunity to thank the Senior Agricultural Officer and his Assistant. Mr. Ong Kee Hui, for the enormous amount of trouble they must have taken in preparing, send- ing up and arranging these exhibits. There was a model poultry farm on show (con¬ structed almost entirely by Mukah prisoners) composed of a mam run enclosed by a tarred bamboo stake fence about 35 yards square, with a small fattening compartment, a brood pen, nest boxes made of kerosene oil tins, a night house, perches and dropping boards, broody coop, grit and drv mash hoppers, etc. A Light Sussex Cock, two Rhode Island Red hens and a brood of chicks were exhibited in it by Mr. L G. Anderson, and another brood of chicks in charge of a capon from the 12th mile Agricul- tural Station. this capon is trained (adding insult to injury by making the “armpits" slightly sore and placing the chicks there overnight. The soothing effect of the chicks apparently induces a feeling of mother-love in the luckless capon, thus fooled into pseudo-motherhood. The operation is especially useful commercially as it enables the brood hen to return to laying directly after the hatch. A certain visitor, however, to whom the process was explained bent his brow in an angry frown, remarking that this 'muckin' about with nature" oughtn't to be allowed. However, the capon is happier this way. with something to occupy its lonely life. Incidentally, we are not ashamed to confess that a 25-cent ticket lottery, with this farm (and 3 birds) as 1st prize (won by Soon Seng) all the sheds used in the show and $5 as 2nd and 3rd prizes (won by Awi bin Kladir and Lamang), realised a profit of $50 or so for the show funds. One of the brightest spots was the St. Anthony's convent stall, full of beautifully-worked table cloths, and other needle work which gained several prizes, most realistic paper flowers, as well as live ones and the largest tomatoes ever seen in Mukah (the King Pin of these died a few weeks before the show but was mummified in vinegar). Local headmen were taken round on a tour and all the instructional exhibits were explained to them, as well as the cultivation of the prison demonstration garden standing crops of jagong, krebang, sword bean and soya bean, all of which ran be grown locally without trouble in poorish soil. Meanwhile, the boys from the 3 local Schools, (the Mission, Datu Awang Udin and Chong Boon Schools) had been competing feverishly in the sports—there were inter-school team races in the relay, tug-of-war, sack race, obstacle race, high jump. long jump and 100 yards, etc., the R.C. Mission School being 1st on points, Malay School 2nd, and Chinese School 3rd. These sports were very ably organised and super¬ vised by the Rev. Father A. Mulder and the Rev. Wm. Boon, assisted by the headmasters of the other schools, and they proved a great draw for the public. Another tremendously popular event was the knock-out football competition, the final of which was played oil on the 25th and resulted in a win for the Tillian team by 1 goal to ml the runners up being the King Kong team. Five teams, (inclu¬ ding a S.O.L. team) competed,—all the matches were played on the very excellent Mission ground by courtesy of the Rector, the Rev. A. G. Mulder, and huge crowds attended each match. At midday over 60 people foregathered in the Fort, for a curry, at which the health of His High¬ ness the Rajah was proposed by the District Officer and drunk by all present. A curry-making competition produced only two entries, trial of which inflated the exhausted judges to bursting point and they awarded a dead heat: (had there been more than two entries, there would have been a few dead beat judges in a "dead heat" also, no doubt) 1st prize was divided between Mr. W. Chua Tamby and Haji Hashim. This ‘blow-out' completed, the judges stalked forth to the wharf to award 1st prize to Fakir bin Rasam for a beautiful yellow painted barong, 1st prize for bundongs to Marmina. mid for prahus to Pati bin Sam. Then came the jala throwing competition (rather badly timed perhaps) which was won by Lai bin Aim who flung a tremendous net of at least 4 fathoms in an almost perfect circle. Mr. J. G. Anderson had a small stall in which were shown some Rhode Island Red Light Sussex cross pullets and cockerels reared on soya bean, padi bran and prawn refuse (dry mash; 4 dozen eggs in a specially designed box with a rotating base which will keep eggs fresh for 1 month by daily rotation; a quantity of soya bean grown locally with products made from it, and a sago grinding machine worked on the circular saw principle, with a bicycle crank and chain, and designed to speed up sago grinding and to replace the old 'to and from' parut method. The total cost of the machine is two or three dollars. Eventually the evening began to close in, and with the dusk, the Committee and Judges, etc., repaired to the Fort for the draw of the lottery and the prize giving. Mrs. J. G. Anderson presented the winners and runners up of the Football competition with (heir medals, and the winners of the badminton com- petition with their prizes (1st prize W. O. Ham¬ dan. 2nd Tan Cheng Hoon) but as very few of the other prize-winners bad turned up, the main prize giving was postponed to the following day and a large party proceeded to a Chinese dinner kindly given by Towkay Sim Liang Ho. Eventually $320 worth of prizes were distri¬ buted. being $170 in excess of advertised prize money, owing to the unexpected quantity and excellence of the exhibits. Darkness had now fallen, and everyone returned to the Padang which was beautifully illuminated with fairy lights by the kindness of Messrs. Sarawak Electricity Supply Company, Ltd. The old Malay Court house had been decorated and converted into ft bar: in front of this building a fountain played over a small pool filled with gold fish and Oya water lilies and an ornamental garden planted with sago palms, the whole of which was floodlit. A firework display (ably managed by Inspector Abang Ali) added to the excitement, and the crowd (already vast) by now increased to about 4,000 people all massed together and seated on the Padang in anticipation of the open air Cinema Show timed for 8.45 p.m, Roth shows were excellent, especially Charlie Chaplin, the last of the silent heroes, beloved of the natives. During the interval a main, jimpin contest was held, four couples competing on the grass in front of the main grandstand which was again illumi- nated by the S.E.S. Co.’s welcome beams. 1st prize was awarded to Sahari and Narwi. 2nd to Idi and Osman, and two special prizes to Bagek and Bujang as all four couples were extremely neat on their feet.          a   nut (so beloved of English fair grounds) for the less easily obtainable tin of fruit or cigarettes. This showman must have been a juggler in his spare time, for an indignant judge (off duty at last found a cigarette end in a tin of "lai chee” which he knocked off the peg. A babble of conversation coming from the bar behind the floodlit fountain was the next attraction, added to by the thought of a mug of cold ale (" that sinful drink which biteth like a serpent and stingeth like a ruddy adder” according to P. G. Wodehouse's converted pugilist, at which the famous Freddie remarked that he’d been looking for bear like that for years). Inside were another brace of judges holding post-mortems over the prize pumpkin (“the one that reminded me of my aunt Lucie doing cross- words”). One of these judges, (a gentleman afflicted with a bamboo shoot-phobia) developed, in addition, a serious attack of pingpongomania (or the fear of being mistaken for a table tennis court) by insisting up to the last ditch that the Rev. Mother Alphonsus bad won the 1st prize for her tennis court and bad gone so far as to drug the other judge to took at this exhibit which turned out (when viewed by the nonphobia judge) to be a particularly fine table cloth. Presently a sound of clapping broke out from the Padang, and the show was over ; ushered out (as it was ushered in) by another prolonged shower of rockets and fireworks and the shuffling and murmuring of the vast crowds. In conclusion. sufficient thanks cannot be given to the judges. Fathers Anthony Mulder and Win. Boon and Messrs. Fisher, Field, Farrelly, Hansom, Pengiran Haji Mohamat, Abang Mustapha and Mr. Sim Liang Ho for their untiring activity and the intelligence and thoroughness of their awards. Thanks also are due to the many others who helped the Committee, in various ways. It is hoped to make the show an annual event, and the next date will almost certainly be fixed for May 23rd and 24th, Proclamation Day, the judges having demanded two days next time. —J. G. ANDERSON. Fourth Division News. SEPTEMBER A reward of $30 was offered by the  Borneo Evangelical Mission at Limbang for information leading to the conviction of the offender in case of theft of cash from the Mission building up river, which occurred some months ago. No clues have yet been discovered. The death of Liew Shun, a subsidized pepper planter, Panderuan road, was investigated, and a verdict of suicide was returned. Deceased had swallowed nicotine essence used for spraying the vines. The District Officer, Limbang, reports that the health of the district has been good, with the exception of a reported epidemic up river of what appears to be pneumonia, from which many deaths have occurred. The dresser is proceeding up river to investigate, and at the same time to advise the natives of the necessity of vaccinations, which have not been undertaken for many years in this area. An apparent vagrant was admitted to Limbang hospital, and found to be a victim of morphinism. How he has been able to obtain cash to purchase his regular supply of three tubes a day is still a mystery. Up-river Agent Jaya returned from a tour of the ulu Lubai and Panderuan areas on the 4th and reported everybody still busy in their farms plant¬ ing padi. In the Sungei Sebena, Pati Medamit, the stream was reported to be choked with dead fish which, it appears, were killed by heavy rain-water flooding freshly burned off padi farms, the water being black with timber ashes. Penghulu Belulok. a pure Tabun from the Baram side, with a local Murut wife, was warned not to try and initiate in the ulu Limbang, with¬ out prior reference to the District Officer, pure Tabun udat to which the ulu Limbang tribes may not be accustomed. Intermarriage of the various local tubes in the ulu Limbang has been common for many years, and the recent endeavours to com- pile and record local tribal adat show that Muru and Tabun adat are practically identical in ulu Limbang. There only remain a handful of pure Tabuns now in the ulu Limbang, nevertheless their adat, have been adopted by Muruts, who although more degenerate, are numerically superior. The instancee referred to arose when Belulok’s daughter married a Dayak according to the Tabun Murut adat of the wife, which is quite customary. At the subsequent divorce, however, the Dayak husband denied the one sengau or tutok human clause in the Tabun Murut marriages adat which is purely Tabun, although it is now clear that he bad understood and agreed to it publicly before marriage. According to this adat. the husband voluntarily provides a tawak, on which husband and wife sit during the marriage feast; this gift is quite seperate from any brian and reverts to their child, irrespective of any subsequent divorce of whatever nature. Failing a child, it reverts to the wife only, and cannot over be reclaimed by the husband.” This particular marriage adat is not altogether unknown in the ulu Limbang amongst the very few remaining pure Tabuns, but is very uncommon in the pure Murut, or the much more frequent mixed marriages. It has now been ordered that in future any adoption of the sengau clause by a husband must be reported to Govern¬ ment bv both parties and recorded before the marriage takes place, otherwise the lawak will be held to be part of the brian in case ci a divorce. T.K. Jebair, who came in to Limbang for medical attention, reported that a boy aged 14 and his brother aged 30 were upset from a boat by a crocodile, which grabbed the boy. who was pad¬ dling in the stern. The elder brother wrestled with the crocodile, which only, released the boy when the latter managed to gouge out one of its eyes. They both managed to gain the bank alive. Litigation at Lawas was negligible during the month. The one criminal case was of an unusual nature: fabrication of false evidence. A con¬ viction was obtained. The Officer-in-Charge, Lawas, reports with regret the death at the ripe old age of 98 of Datu Pengiran Haji Mohamat, of Trusan. He per¬ formed long and faithful service to Government, a term of 38 years in all, and his name is one that that will be long remembered. Born (it is said !) in the year 1839, it is not only interesting but frankly staggering to think that he arrived in the world in the same year that Sir James Brooke first set foot on Sarawak territory. The late Datu was a native of Simanggang, but in the year 1884 he was requested by the Second Rajah to move with his relatives to Trusan and take up permanent residence there. This accounts for the fact pure Sarawak Malay is still regularly spoken in a part of the country otherwise populated by Brunei Malays. He was raised to the rank of Datu in the year 1916, and retired from the Service in 1929. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates. Limited, exported 32,704 lbs. of dry rubber during the month. The District Officer. Baram. reports that two Chinese from his station are now in Miri hospital with typhoid. They were both accustomed to feed in the bazaar and it is thought, that they must have become infected there. Precautions have been taken and a daily inspection takes place so that anyone suspected may be isolated at once The unsavoury condition of the back of the bazaar. especially drainage from the numerous pigsties, is very insanitary and should be dealt with as soon as possible. A scheme for improvement is being sent in, and it is hoped that authority to order the removal of squatters huts, pigsties, and smoke¬ houses to lots already surveyed will be obtained. A young Malay leper from Kampong Dagang was sent to Kuching, and another child, a Kenyah. has been found to have positive smears. This girl was born in Kuching some six years ago in the Leper Camp but apparently was not infected. She was sent back to be eared for by relations in the Tutoh and now after all these years the disease has only just developed. Her father is still alive in the Leper Camp, but her mother died there some years ago. $3,049.60 of the Baram Relief Fund was spent at the end of the month, but some hundred and fifteen bags of rice will be required by natives already waiting in the bazaar. A supplementary vote for $5,000 has been applied for. Only two applications for relief have come from villages between Long Akah and Leo Main, and one from the Tinjar. It is not yet known how the rice substitutes continually planted are doing in these districts, and whether the inhabitants will be able to exist on these until the next harvest without having relief. The Lepu Tau at Long Muh, it is said, will be able to do so. Even when these people from the headwaters of the Baram do arrive and ask for relief, it is a matter for conjecture whether the rice will ever reach the village, since with the river and the rapids against them they might be held up for weeks at a time. Reports of the new crop to hand so far are very discouraging. Several fields of newiy planted rice have been destroyed by pests (gioh) and mice. The Resident , Fourth Division, comments on the Baram famine as follows :— "With regard to the alleged famine in the ulu Baram, while there certainly is a shortage of rice, and apparently a serious one, it is difficult to deter¬ mine what share of this misfortune is due io the people themselves, and how much is due to unforseen calamities. It is significant that the Kelabits in the far ulu and the Dayaks in the Bakong, Niah, Sibuti and neighbouring districts do not appear to be seriously affected. The District Officer, Bintulu, mentions in this month's report that the Kayans in his district are later than the Dayaks in planting. It appears that Kayans and Kenyahs have so many pantang that forbid them to approach their farms at certain times that neglect is followed by pests. One thing is very evident, however, and that is the futility of simply paying out relief money without attempting a remedy. Last year Government paid nut about $1,000, (his year $5,000 and the District Officer wants $5,000 more. What will the natives want in 1937. 1938 and 1939? If, as I suspect, much of the famine is due to neglect by the natives themselves, then they must lie shown that God helps those that help themselves ! The whole matter is being investigated.” The Resident. Fourth Division, accompanied by the Divisional Treasurer, arrived at Baram by m. v. Margaret on September 11th. and returned to Miri on the 14th. Particular attention was paid to the pauper settlement nt the back of the bazaar, and the scheme for improvement was discussed. The weekly visit to Bakong by the District Officer. Baram, will cease on the 15th of next month and one month’s warning has been given to those residing in the Bakong river. It is felt that there is insufficient business there to warrant the expen¬ diture resultant on a weekly visit, and there is no reason why the Chinese living at Bakong. Kuala Nyabor, and Beluru should not come to Marudi to do their business and purchase chandu in the same manner as the Chinese from the other up-river bazaars. Lobok Nibong bazaar continues to flourish and to he a very painful thorn in the side of the Marudi traders. Complaints are continual, but the matter has been thrashed out and a decision given by His Highness the Rajah. They are told this time and time again, but it docs not appear to help or do any good. Padi planting in the Bintulu District is reported to be finished by most natives. The Kayans, how¬ ever. seem to be behind everybody else. The District Officer. Bintulu. reports as follows “The Native Officer of Tatau reported to me that a tuba-fishing had taken place in the Anap. The facts were not known until I got to Tatau to investigate the case. It appears that two tuai- rumah, Berai and Buli, had called an aum and discussed the Government Tuba Regulations. They agreed that these constituted a gross inter¬ ference with their customs, and decided to hold a large tuba-fishing in the Anap; messengers were then sent all over the river giving the date (four days after the aum) : they said that they would hold the fishing and Government could do what it liked afterwards. The tuba-fishing was duly held, and most, but not all, tuai-tuai rumah attended it. This did not reach the Penghulus’ ears until after the event. Our system of having our Penghulus within easy reach of the Fort, fails here, as perhaps if we had had a Penghulu in the upper Anap the whole thing could have been squashed before the fishing took place. "All tuai-tuai rumah were called down and saw me in the Fort. Berai and Buli were very out¬ spoken and the case occupied most of one day; Berai and Buli were dealt with severely, and other tuai-tuai rumah were fined small amounts. "Afterwards, when the case was over, Berai and Buli became quite friendly, and assured me that such a thing would not happen again. After this affair I definitely think we shall either have to move Penghulu Begok to the Anap—I do not suppose be would go—or get another penghulu for that river.” Alterations to the Tatau Fort so as to accommo¬ date the wireless station in this building were completed during the month. Work on the new quarters for the wireless operator/clerk was com¬ menced. September 26th, the birthday of His Highness the Rajah, was observed as a public holiday al Bintulu. A local regatta was held on this day which, was a complete success. The entries for each race were surprisingly good,—in the 15 men temuai race there were 15 starters. There were a great number of Dayaks down for the races; these people celebrated in the usual way and a great day was enjoyed by all. The log boom belonging to the Sarawak Timber and Trading Company, Ltd., which broke towards the end of last month has successfully been repaired and most of the logs which got away have been collected at different points. Flying boat No. K.4581 passed over Bintulu on the morning of September 30th. Air Commodore Sydney Smith, who was on board, dropped a message of greeting as he passed over. This mess¬ age was recovered by a Dayak from the Sungei Jingin whch runs close by the Fort. His Highness the Rajah’s Birthday Celebrations in Miri. CEREMONIAI. PARADE AND PRESENTATION OF MEDALS. Having rained almost the entire day previously, the outlook for the programme which had been prepared for the celebration of His Highness' birthday in Miri looked bad. However, Saturday morning brought bright sunshine and a cool breeze and the first part of the programme, the ceremonial parade of the Constabulary, on the ‘‘padang’’ was attended by large numbers of Europeans, natives. Chinese and Indians. At eight o’clock precisely the Resident, accompanied by the District Officer, arrived at the saluting base, when the flag was broken and the anthem played. The Resident then inspected the troops under the command of Mr. R. G. Talbot drawn up in line, after which they inarched past in column of platoons and in close column . The troops then fired a feu de joie, gave three cheers His Highness and finally advanced in review order Hollow square was then formed and the Resi¬ dent presented the Long Service Decorations to five Government servants and the Constabulary Long Service medal to one man. An innovation this year was the presence of 500 picked school children, drawn from the Govern¬ ment Vernacular School, St. Columba's School, St. Joseph’s School, the Chung Hua School, the Hwa Chiao School and the Kung Ho School, Lutong, who were drawn up on each side of the grandstand facing the troops. After the presentation of medals and the troops had marched off. these children marched past by schools and made a brave display with bands and flags. A move was then made to the Gymkhana Club where the Resident proposed the health of His Highness the Rajah, which was drunk with acclamations by Europeans and natives. A word here should be said for the steadiness of the troops on parade. It is never easy to carry out ceremonial movements on grass, especially in this case after a day’s rain, but nothing marred the evolutions and the parade compared favourably with the former Sarawak Rangers. SPORTS. At 2 p.m. land sports were held at the padang. These sports, which used to be a great annual fixture, had been abandoned for some years in favour of Regattas. This year, is was decided to see whether the same interest remained. It is pleasant to note, therefore, that the popularity of this type of sport has not declined. Enormous entries were received and for the week previous heats were run off practically every afternoon. The greatest enthusiasm was shown and the hard work put in by the Committee and other workers was amply repaid by the success of the meeting.  At the end of the sports the prizes were given away by Mrs. P. M. Scott, and this concluded a really excellent afternoon’s sport. Many persons helped, but perhaps special mention should be made of Messrs. D. C. White, A Goldie, W. Geikie and W. Carrol. We must not forget too. the band supplied by the Miri Engineering Association and the helpers who supplied all the school children with free refreshments during the afternoon. FUN FAYRE. A “Fun Fayre” was held at the Golf Club from 7 p.m. until the early hours of the next morning. A well-organised band of officials were most successful in extracting our money by the means of cocoanut shies, fortune tellers, dubious race games, electrical shocks, roulette. Aunt Sally and other such attractions. Attempts to achieve the impossible only resulted in more money going on what were, we fear, very one-sided games. However, the Golf Club made the money and we certainly enjoyed ourselves. There was a marvellous buffet where Mr. Johnston supplied enormous suppers for a dollar apiece. The usual glee party, led by Mr. C. W. Creek, ended the affair.—(Contributed.) CORRESPONDENCE. [The Editor is not responsible for the opinions of correspondents. ] Wireless Press News. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching. SIR, May we encroach on a modicum of your valu¬ able space to ventilate an appeal which, (if taken up by other influential publications in Singapore and elsewhere) may, eventually, reach the ears of those responsible for the dissemination of the very lengthy and too often tedious Wireless Press News? Dwellers in outstations especially are naturally most grateful for the service, improvements in which, however, would be welcome, without doubt, all the world over. Very few people, for instance want to hear long paraphrased speeches by the Foreign Ministers of obscure states, giving their unemployment figures, or the amount of cattle cake exported by them in the last twelve months. Nor is anyone, nowadays, interested in the policy and intentions of various screamingly excited middle European States, became policy and intentions are seldom carried out and are there¬ fore neither interesting nor informative. Items of real interest, such as the capture of important points in the Spanish rebellion, or the progress of some big air race, etc., are frequently omitted, glossed over in a line or two, or hidden in a mass of dull trade figures. The average journalist is a master of 'précis’ and has a news sense as sharp as any bloodhound's nose for meat, but it would be surprising to hear that there are any such journalists on the boards of the various wireless news agencies. Yours faithfully. TELLUS. MOORE & SHORTER, LTD. [The wireless press news that we receive in Sarawak is not sent out by a news agency at all, but by the British Government under the title ‘British Official Press.’ so our correspondent is probably correct in assuming that professional journalists have little enough to do with it. We should remember that if this Official Press News is perhaps less interesting than that provided by Reuter’s  or the  other News Agencies,  it is supplied to us  gratis,  whereas Reuter’s service  costs money. Incidentally,  the  word influential in  our correspondent's  first  paragraph strikes a  timely note.—ED.] “PANAU" Fishing. 19th October, 1936. The Editor, Sarawak Gazette, Kuching SIR, With reference to the interesting account of panau fishing described in the August report of the District Officer, Kuching, published in your issue of October 1st. the following particulars may be of interest. This method of fishing is not unique; it was copied by the Bintulu fishermen from Trengganu Nakadas and others trading to and from Bintulu in by-gone years. (Quite a number of the descen¬ dants of these men now live in Bintulu. married to local women.) Panau has been practised in Bintulu for many years, very large catches resulting from it. The conical net is not really an idus, it is a large jala, and the divers (four, one at each comer) having cajoled and ‘edged’ the fish up into the cone, close the base. simultaneously tugging the line as a signal for the lifting of the net. The idus proper is an enormous slambau used by the Mukah fishermen. It is a triangular net (on the shrimp-catching principle) which is operated from the side of a barong which sails along crab-wise and beam on to shade fronds lowered some days before. The net is pushed along below the surface and when below the frond, it is lifted with fish, if any. The catches are much smaller than those obtained by the Bintulu method, no divers being used. A few years ago some Bintulu men came over to Mukah to try the local waters with the jala method. Although larger catches than those of the idus were made, they said the idus method, (involving no 'cajoling' by divers), must have scared the fish which were found to be much warier than the Bintulu ones, consequently the method was not a success locally and the idus is still the vogue. Yours faithfully, J. G. ANDERSON. [The writer of this very interesting letter is mistaken in one small particular, namely in stating that fishermen who employ the true idus do not use divers.—they do, and I have seen them at it. They also most definitely 'cajole' the fish into the net, this being an essential feature of panau fishing at Mukah and Oya. When the palm-frond that acts as ‘bait’ is approached, one of the fishermen secures the rattan line by which it is anchored to the bottom and draws the frond slowly towards the barong; if it is seen that fish have been attracted (they are easily visible in the clear water), the frond is released, the barong makes a circle.—being pro¬ pelled by oars, incidentally, not sails,— and as the frond is again approached, the idus is lowered. When it is in the 'ready' position, the rattan line is caught with a primitive boathook and the frond is drawn gently over the net, the fish following it like sheep. Two men now dive into the sea, one from each end of the barong, and turn back any stragglers, literally 'chivying' them into the net; when they have rounded up all fish in the vicinity and edged them over the idus, this is lifted, and the catch is tipped into the boat. The two divers come to the surface puffing and blowing, clamber on board again, and the barong moves off to the next palm-frond, where the process is repeated. It is an extremely interesting and attractive sight to see the divers at work in the clear blue water, since they are so skilful that they seem like a larger variety of fish themselves. It is a curious fact, incidentally, that although the barongs operate several miles from the shore and in comparatively deep water, no diver has been attacked by a shark in living memory. The fishermen attribute this immunity partly to the observance of certain pantang, which are of considerable interest, and which are well worth studying.—RD ]  