The Sarawak Gazette THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1st. 1936. Local and Personal. SEPTEMBER. We understand that His Highness the Rajah and Dayang Valerie propose to sail from Europe by P.&O. s.s. Comorin, which leaves Marseilles on October 30th. and is due to arrive at Singapore on November 20th. Her Highness the Ranee expects to follow in the Rajputana, which leaves Marseilles on November 13th. and is due in Singapore on December 4th. Mr. A. W. D. Brooke returned to Sarawak on September 7th having completed his period of secondment with the Malayan Civil Ser vice. His last appointment in Malaya was that of Acting Third Magistrate, Kuala Lumpur. On arriving at Kuching Mr. Brooke drove to the house of Mr. H. B. Crocker, Acting Government Secretary, where he was received by the members of Committee of Administra tion and Supreme Council. Mr. Crocker made a short speech in English and Malay welcoming Mr. Brooke on his return to Sarawak, and Mr. Brooke replied in a few words expressing his pleasure at being back after two very interesting and enjoyable years in Malaya. Mr. Brooke, who since his return has been dividing his time between the Secretariat and the District Office, Kuching, will probably go to Nanga Meluan early in October. On the afternoon of September 9th, the Datu Shahbandar gave a reception at his house to which were invited His Highness the Tuan Muda, Dayang Anne, Mr. A. W. I). Brooke, the Datu Imam, and a few European Government Officers and their wives. A very pleasant feature of this reception was the presence of a number of Malay ladies who mixed freely with the guests, and whose really beautiful silks and sarongs lent distinc tion to the scene. It is hoped that this is a precedent which other Malay hosts will follow. The proceedings closed with a group photograph taken on the lawn. We deeply regret to record the death of Haji Mohamed Rais, Datu Imam Tua, which occurred at his Kuching home on September 24th. The funeral took place on the follow ing day. . An obituary notice appears in another column. Mr. P. M. Adams. Resident. Second Division, handed over the affairs of his Divi sion to Mr. H. E. Cutfield, who is to act for him during his absence on furlough, on September 15th. Mr. G. R. II. Arundell handed over Lubok Antu district to Mr. F. A. Moore on the same day. Dr. W. N. Whitford, the representative in the Far East of the Rubber Manufacturers Association, U.S.A., arrived at Kuching on August 31st. and left on September 3rd. Race Week began on Monday, September 21st with the arrival in Kuching of Messrs. P. M. Adams and H. E. Cutfield, the first of the outstation visitors, apart from Mr. C. D. Adams, Resident, Third Division, who had arrived down on duty the previous Friday. The Autumn Race Meeting was very successful, as usual, and the Turf Club are to be congratulated on their efficient organization of these functions, which are always enjoyable and which provide enter tainment for all sections of the community. Other visitors from the outstations in cluded : from the First Division. Mr. and Mrs. L. K. Morse. Mr. E. H. Elam, and Abang Zamhari, Native Officer; from the Second Division, Mr. G. R. H. Arundell; and from the Third Division, Mrs. C. D. Adams and Mr. A. Macpherson. There were no visitors from the Fourth Division. In spite of the fact that an unusually small number of outstation-ites came down for the races. Race Week’ maintained its customary standard of hectic gaiety and passed off very cheerfully indeed. This was due in some measure to the presence of H.M.S. Herald, a most welcome visitor, which arrived at Pending on September 25th and left on the 29t.h. Our thanks are due to His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne for a most enjoyable dance which took place at Astana on the night of Saturday, September 26t.h (His Highness the Rajah’s birthday), and at which almost the entire European community of Kuching, including visitors, was present. Solosa and His Band provided the music for a very pleasant evening’s entertainment. On the evening of September 28th Mr. W. F. Dick. Resident, First Division, and Mrs. Dick very kindly placed the Sylvia Cinema (including the bar !) at. the disposal of all the Europeans in Kuching who were able to attend. We have to thank Mr. and Mrs. Dick for discovering a highly original idea for large scale entertaining, and one which provided a delightful evening for the many guests who were present. Elsewhere in this issue will be found a short, account (taken from a Singapore paper) of Mr. Ong Tiang Swee’s recent visit to Singa pore,—his first for over twenty years. Mr. Ong Tiang Swee stayed with Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang, his son-in-law, at his new house at Katong. This house, which is built in the modern style, is very striking in appearance, and has its own bathing pagar. among other amenities. While in Singapore, Mr. Ong Tiang Swee visited the Old Palace of His Highness the Sultan of Johore, and was greatly interested in what he saw there. As he was leaving the Palace he happened to meet His Highness Tungku Makhota, the Regent of Johore; on hearing that Mr. Ong Tiang Swee had not ; been to Johore for more than forty years, he remarked that he should visit the State at least once a year, and not once in half a century ! Mr. Ong Tiang Swee states that he was much impressed by the turtle farm at. Kal lang, where hundreds of large turtles, each weighing between 150 and 250 katis, are kept in an enclosure ready for sale and slaughter. These turtles are apparently caught off the Dutch islands near Singapore, and are pur chased for about $7.50 per picul. Fresh turtle eggs are sometimes obtained at the farm at a price of 90 cents per hundred,—about the same as the retail price in Kuching. Mr. Ong Tiang Swee and Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang returned to Kuching by the Vyner Brooke on September 21st in order to be in time for the races. Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang left again for Singapore on October 5th. A very enjoyable feature of Race Week was the Constabulary Bangsawan, which was staged at the Depot, Kuching, on September 28th, 29th and 30th and again on Sunday, October 4th. commencing at 8.30 each even ing. The popularity of this venture was abundantly proved by the crowds which assembled each night to witness it as guests of the Constabulary; on some nights there must have been at least a thousand people present, many of whom were so eager to get a good place that they arrived two hours and more before the show was due to open. On September 29th His Highness the Tuan Muda and the Astana party attended the Bangsawan and saw an excellent performance which was enlivened by a European harmonica quintet (or was it a sextet ?) and a particularly good conjuring turn by Mr. A. W. D. Brooke.’ The thanks of all communities are due to the Constabulary officers responsible for the organization of the Bangsawan and to the per formers themselves and all others con cerned for an excellent entertainment, and one which we hope will be repeated. A short account of Air Commodore S. W. Smith’s farewell visit to Sarawak will be found in another column. Air Commodore Smith leaves Singapore to take up a home appointment on November 20th after three years in command of all Royal Air Force units in the Far East. During this period Air Commodore Smith has paid many visits to Sarawak, where he is well known, and where he will be greatly missed. We apologise to our readers for the late appearance of this issue of the Gazette; this is largely due to a sudden rush of events at the end of the month, and in the circum stances is unavoidable National Memorial to His late Majesty King George V. We publish below a circular despatch received from the Secretary of State for the Colonies through His Excellency the British Agent:— Downing Street, 12/h August, 1986. Sir, I hare. the honour to inform you that last March a Meeting was held at the Mansion House to consider proposals for a National Memorial to His late Majesty King George the Fifth. It was resolved that the memorial should take the form of a statue of His late Majesty in London in some, noble setting, and a philanthropic scheme of a specific character which would benefit the whole country and he associated with His late Majesty's name. It was further resolved that the Lord Mayor of London should be asked to issue an appeal for a Mansion House Fund to be opened for universal subscription for the expenses of the memorial and that acknowledgment of subscriptions received should be published from time to time in "The Times" and other newspapers. 2. It was subsequently recommended that for the purpose of the erection of the proposed statue a site should he acquired in Abingdon Street and Old Palace Yard which are in close proximity to West minster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament., and that the proposed statue of His Majesty should be. placed on this site immediately facing the House of Lords in specially designed surroundings. With regard to the philanthropic scheme, it was recom mended that this should take the form of fields to be acquired all over the country for recreation purposes, and that at the entrance to each of these fields there should be a distinctive gateway bearing an inscription to show- that it is one of the King George Memorial Fields. or other appropriate visible commemoration of His late Majesty. These proposals were sub mitted to His Majesty King Edward and Her Majesty Queen Mary, who were graciously pleased to signify their entirc approbation of them. 3. The Mansion House Fund has been opened, and I am informed that subscriptions are- being received not only from persons in the United Kingdom but from persons in many parts of the Empire, from British communities in foreign countries, and even from foreign countries, such as the United States of America. So far as the Colonial Empire is con cerned. I have no doubt that in many instances the question of some form of local memorial to His late Majesty is under consideration, and in such cases the inhabitants of the Colony will no doubt prefer to subscribe to the cost of the local memorial rather than to the memorial in this country. If, however, no local memorial is contemplated, many persons in the territory concerned may desire to make some contribution towards the cost of the monument which it is proposed to erect in the capital of the Empire, and even if there is to be a local memorial some individuals may like to be associated with the memorial in Westminster also. In this connection I may mention that I recently received a communication from a Colonial Governor slating that he proposed to invite the inhabitants of the Colony concerned to subscribe funds to a memorial to His late Majesty, and that he proposed to utilize the subscriptions so received for a local memorial except in cases where the donors speci fically requested that their contributions should be applied towards the cost of the national memorial in the United Kingdom. I replied that I concurred in this proposal. 4.I should be obliged if you would arrange for such publicity as you may consider necessary to be given to this matter. Subscriptions should be sent direct to the King George National Memorial Fund. The Mansion House, London, E.C.4. I have the honour to be. Sir, Your most obedient, humble servant, W. ORMSBY GORE. His Highness the Rajah’s Birthday. PRESENTATION OF MEDALS. GUARD OF HONOUR FROM H.M.S. "HERALD,” The ceremonial on His Highness the Rajah’s birthday was distinguished this year by the presence of a Naval Guard of Honour from H.M.S. Herald. which arrived at Tending on September 25th. This guard, which was commanded by' Lieut. R. H. Connell, R.N., consisted of sixteen men and a Petty Officer. The naval detachment fell in with the Constabulary guard in front of the Borneo Company 's offices at 8.15 a.m.. and marched to Pengkalan Batu, where it took up position on the right. At 9 a.m. a Royal Salute of twenty-one guns was fired from Fort Margherita battery. On the con clusion of the salute His Highness the Tuan Muda, accompanied by Mr. N. E. Hughes, A.D.C., left Astana steps and proceeded across river to Peng kalan Batu. His Highness was met on landing by Mr. H. B. Crocker. Acting Government Secretary. Mr. D. V. Murphy, Acting Commissioner of Sarawak Constabulary, Commander N. A. C. Hardy, R.N., (the Captain of H.M.S. Herald), and the Datu Shahbandar. After taking the salute. His Highness met Mr. W. II. Kelley, who was in command of the Con stabulary guard, and Lieut. Connell, and inspected the two guards of honour, commencing with the Naval guard. His Highness then walked to the Court house, which had been socially decorated for the occasion, and proceeded to the dais, where Dayang Anne, Mr. A. W. D. Brooke, and European and Asiatic members of the Council Negri and Committee, of Administration and others were waiting. The remainder of the guests to the number of about 160 were accommodated in the body of the Court house. When all the medals and long service decorations had been bestowed by His Highness, refreshments were served, and the Government Secretary made a short speech in the course of which he mentioned how glad we all were to see the officers and men of H.M.S. Herald in Kuching, and thanked the Captain of the Herald for his very courteous gesture in furnishing a naval guard to do honour to the occasion. He then proposed the health of His Highness the Rajah, which was drunk by all present. His Highness the Tuan Muda then returned to Astana. I'he following telegram was despatched to His Highness the Rajah by the Government Secretary on the morning of September 26th :— All officers and all communities wish Your Highness many happy returns of the day.” His Highness the Tuan Muda has addressed the following letter to the Captain of H.M.S. Herald on September 30th :— “Dear Captain Hardy, As the Rajah is absent from Sarawak it devolves on me to thank you on his behalf for your courtesy in furnishing a guard of honour from the 'Herald' to assist in the celebration of his sixty-second birthday. 1 should be grateful if you would be so good as to inform the Officer-in-Charge of the guard, and the petty officers and men composing it, how much we appreciate this contribution by the Herald to the gathering, and the additional support which was lent to the occasion by the smartness and steadiness on parade of those concerned. We feel, moreover, that, this gesture on your part is (if I may say so) a particularly happy one in view of the Herald's long association with Sarawak, and the cordial relations which have always existed between her Officers and personnel and those of this Government. Believe me, Yours very sincerely, (Signed) BERTRAM BROOKE. Tuan Muda." No account of the proceedings on His Highness the Rajah's birthday would be complete without some tribute to the smartness and steadiness of both the Naval and Constabulary guards of honour. This was remarked on by all the spectators, and reflects great credit on the officers and men concerned. Our thanks are also due to the Datu Amar, who was responsible for the very successful decoration of the Court house and its approaches A Note On Food. Owing to considerations of space the third instal¬ ment of this article is held over, and will appear next month. —EDITOR. The late Mr. F. A. W. Page Turner. A correspondent writes as follows :— “I was very glad to see that in your obituary notice of the late Mr. F. A. W. Page-Turner you referred to the occasion on which, unarmed and helpless, he dispersed an enemy advance guard with a few caustic words and a shower of pebbles. There is, however, another achievement of 'P—T's’ which is not so well-known, but which should, I think, be recorded, since it is an excellent example of his personal courage and influence with Dayaks. “When Page-Turner took over the Second Division no European had ever been beyond the Government station at Lubok Antu. (up the Ulu Ai, that is,) except when on expeditions. Lubok Antu itself was a stockaded post, and all the long- houses in the Ulu were on the tops of hills, instead of on the river hanks. This circumstance in itself will show the state of affairs that prevailed in the Ulu, where the writ of Government did not run, where all was suspicion and distrust, and where conditions of anarchy and disorder prevailed. "Page-Turner, however, determined to put an end to all this. Against all advice he set off up river with one Native Officer the late Dato Haji Bua Assan, I think,) and only one policeman; he had decided that a proper guard would only bo provocative, and he relied on his personal prestige to see him through. “And he was right He spent several weeks in the Ulu arguing, cajoling and commanding, without any backing other than the force of his own will, and returned in due course to Lubok Antu safe and sound. Within one month of his return the whole Ulu Ai had acknowledged the Rajah’s sovereignly, and every long-house had moved down from the hill-tops to the banks of the river. Anarchy and the misrule of the tribal chiefs had been replaced by sound administration, and the prevailing distrust had yielded to peace and confidence which continued until his retire¬ ment. Not a bad achievement, surely.” Verily, there were giants in those days. Notice. MEMORIAL TO THE LATE REV. FATHER VINCENT HALDER. It is proposed that some token of esteem be erected to the memory of the late Rev. Father Halder by his many European friends. Will those who have come in personal contact with 'Apai' subscribe to a token of remembrance in the form of a tombstone suitably inscribed? Subscriptions will be received by Mr. P. Cobbold, Sibu Those wishing to subscribe should send their subscriptions before 1st December, 1936. Sibu, 4th September, 1936. Kematian Almarhum Haji Mohammad Rais Dato Eman Tua. Dengan beberapa duka chita kita memberitakan ia-itu Haji Mohammad Rais Dato’ Emam Tua telah kembali ka-Rahmatullah pada hari Khamis ‘24 September, 1936 pukol 3 petang dan di-kebumikan pada hari Jum'at pukol 2 lepas Sembahayang Jum’at. Ketika menghantarkan jenazah Almarhum itu ka- tempat perkuboran-nya pembesar-pembesar dan anak-anak putera bumi sangat ramai mengiringkan bersama-sama. Almarhum itu berumor lebeh kurang 86 tahun Inggeris atau 90 tahun Melayu. Lama sakit-nya di-dalam 3 tahun tetapi pada ketika itu dapat rebah angkat sedikit-sedikit. yang memberati-nya di-dalam 6 bulan sahaja. Almarhum itu ada meninggal 2 orang isteri, 5 anak laki-laki, sa-orang anak perempuan, 27 chuchu, 20 chichit dan 7 anak angkat. Mula-mula ia masok pekerja-an Perentah men- jadi Tua-Kampong di-dalam Negeri Sibu lebeh kurang 15 tahun kemudian berpindah ka-Kuching mendapat gelaran Dato’ Emam pada 24 June tahun 1907, lama-nya memangku pekerja-an yang-tersebut itu 18 tahun, kemudian mendapat pension dengan gelaran Dato' Emam Tua pada 7 February 1925. Kematian Almarhum itu sangat memberi duka- chita kerana ia-nya sa-orang pegawai yang kenama- an lagi sangat di-sayangi oleh Keraja-an sebab jasa dan kebaktian-nya. Kita berasa sangat pilu kapada istiri-istiri, anak- anak dan segala ahli-ahli-nya, mudah-mudahan mcreka-itu senentiasa di-dalam sabar dan sejahtera dan mudah-mudahan Tuhan chuchurkan rahmat atas Almarhum itu dan masokkan ia ka-dalam bilangan Ahli Shurga. Kuching Rotary Club. At the lunch Meeting of the Kuching Rotary Club held at the Chinese Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, 23rd September, 1936, reference was made by the President, Mr. H. M. Calvert, to the death of the 80th District Governor, H.R.H. Prince Purachatra, which occurred at the General Hospital, Singapore, on 14th September. The sad news was immediately communicated by telegram by the Rotary Club of Singapore to all other Clubs in the 80th District and caused much grief amongst Rotarians. Kuching Rotary Club experienced a special sense of regret in view of the fact that the late Prince was to come over here at the end of the month to present the Rotary Charter to the local Club. The body is now lying-in-state at the residence of the late highly-esteemed Rotarian- Governor pending the completion of arrangements to take the coffin to Bangkok for burial towards the end of this month. A message of condolence has been conveyed to the family by the Kuching Rotary Chib and a wreath has been ordered for the ceremonial send-off. The late Prince was a brother of King Prajadhipok and the uncle of the present “boy” King of Siam and though his activities were mostly connected with his own country, he was very well-known in Malaya during later years, after his retirement from the Siamese Government service, when he settled down in Singapore. He was a very keen and enthusiastic Rotarian, being the first President of the Bangkok Rotary Club. His popularity was evidenced by his appointment as the 80th District Governor in 1934-1935 and he was again appointed this year. During his governorship and due to his energy, two new Clubs came into existence, one in Taiping, F.M.S., and the other in Kuching, Sarawak, and when he first came over here for the inauguration of the latter Club, he made a host of friends by his genial disposition and breezy personality. The late Prince was born on 23rd January, 1882, and received his early education in England, studying at Harrow and Trinity College, Cam¬ bridge. which course of study in later years stood him in good stead for his work and patriotism for his own country. He first served in the Army where his promotion was rapid until he became Inspector-General of the Land Forces, which he brought up to a high pitch of efficiency as is evidenced at the present time. Later he was seconded to the Ministry as the Minister of Rail¬ ways, during which time he was greatly instru¬ mental in extending and improving the Railways and communications of his country. Lastly during his office as Minister of Commerce and Commu¬ nications he did a lot to develop the principal exports of Siam which are mainly rice and teak¬ wood. Finally, before retiring he held the office of Supreme Councillor of State for one year. He had many interests, and in business was connected with various companies operating in Malaya and Siam. He was a much-travelled man, having been to the Continent of Europe and America more than once, both on pleasure and in connection with his Rotary Governorship. On his last world tour ho attended the International Rotary Convention in Mexico. He was an outstanding linguist, speaking fluently a number of languages besides his own. He was also an enthusiastic photographer and was never far or for long parted from his cine camera, especially when on holiday or travelling, to the ultimate delight of his many friends who were privileged to see his films. Keenly interested in all he did, lie will be greatly missed by all with whom he was associated in his many interests. Of his social activities Rotary perhaps lay nearest his heart, and he gave unstintingly of his best in serving the movement which he firmly believed would be of lasting benefit to his fellow-men. To those who knew him personally, his loss will be great and the service he so willingly gave will be long remembered and will not be easily replaced. Contributed. Farewell Visit of Air Commodore S. W. Smith, R.A.F. RECEPTION AT ASTANA. Air Commodore S. W. Smith, o.b.e., R.A.F., arrived at Pending by flying boat at 12.25 p.m. on September 30th on the last stage of a flight from Seletar to Hong Kong and back. The purpose of this flight was to enable Air Commodore Smith to carry out his annual inspection at the Royal Air Force Station, Tai Tak, Hong Kong, and in the course of it he called at Kam Ranh Bay (French Indo China), Manila, and Kudat. It is understood that the flight was entirely without incident and was carried out to schedule. Since this was Air Commodore Smith's last visit to Sarawak before relinquishing his command of the Royal Air Force, Far East, in order to take up another appointment, he was received on arrival with a salute of eleven guns and a Constabulary guard of honour. Air Commodore Smith and the other R.A.F. officers who accompanied him (Group Captain A. H. Peck, D.S.O., M.C., and Squadron Leader C. S. Riccard) were met at Pending by H.H.M.Y. Maimuna, which convoyed them to Astana, where an official landing took place. The official landing was followed by a reception at which members of the Council Negri and Supreme Council and certain other officers- were present. Refreshments were handed round, and His Highness the Tuan Muda welcomed Air Com¬ modore Smith in a short speech in which he referred to the very cordial relations that had always prevailed between the Royal Air Force and Sarawak, and which were due in no small measure to* the invariable courtesy, sympathy and help¬ fulness of Air Commodore Smith himself. He expressed the sorrow that was felt by all in Sarawak at the thought that this was the last time that we should see Air Commodore Smith on Sarawak soil, and added that the good wishes of his many friends in this country would go with him to whatever new post he was called upon to fill. The same was true of the various other R.A.F. officers who had frequently visited Sarawak, and who would shortly be returning to England. His Highness then proposed the health of the Air Commodore, which was drunk by all present. Air Commodore Smith replied in a few words thanking His Highness the Tuan Muda for his speech and saying how sorry lie was to be leaving Sarawak, a country of which he and his officers would always have the happiest recollections; he added that he hoped that he would be able to meet some of his Sarawak friends in England in due course, and then concluded with the toast of ‘His Highness the Tuan Muda.' This toast was drunk by all the guests, who then dispersed. Air Commodore Smith left for Singapore at 8 a.m. on October 2nd and reached Singapore four hours later. The following telegrams were exchanged between the Air Commodore, and His Highness the Tuan Muda :— From Air Commodore Smith to His Highness the Tuan Muda :— “I leave Sarawak with very happy memories mindful always of the many kindnesses I have received from you and your officers. My best wishes to you, and to Anne, and am looking forward to our meeting in England.” From His Highness the Tuan Muda and Dayang Anne to Air Commodore Smith:— “Many thanks for your message. Although we shall miss your visits here we all of us in Sarawak shall follow your career with affectionate interest and look forward to meeting you again individually elsewhere. Please convey our heartiest messages of good¬ will to your officers and our friends whose departure is also imminent. May you and Mrs. Sidney Smith and Maureen and your officers have safe passages home and enjoy the best of good fortune in the future.” The Fast Motor Road Myth. The decision to devote £400,000 to the. “modernisa¬ tion” of the Kingston by-pass, which was first opened in 19'27, has not apparently convinced people of the futility of fast roads as a remedy for the loss of life through motor accidents. If it were not sufficient evidence that the Kingston by-pass is, apart from the Great West Hoad (also specially built for fast traffic) the scene of the greatest number of deaths and mannings, we have the case of Germany before us. Germany has been laying out a network of fast double-track motor roads as rapidly as the energy of her dictator can make them. And Germany has a casualty list on the roads every bit as high as our own, although she has only half the number of motor cars distributed over twice the area. However unpalatable the truth may be to the motorist, the only way to decrease loss of life is by travelling more slowly, and any incentive to speed, whether by fast roads or otherwise, is bound in the long run to have the opposite effect. —Truth.  Memories of Singapore 20 Years ago. CHINESE RETURNS ROM SARAWAK. A Singapore without motor-cars. Horse drawn hackney carriages plodding down the narrow streets of the town. Going to market in a sampan. Mr. Ong Tiang Swee, proprietor of the Batu Kinyang Farm, Sarawak, and a director of the Sarawak Steamship Co., Ltd., who is now in Singapore for the first time in 20 years, is amazed at the remarkable changes that have taken place in this city since he left it shortly after getting married. He well remembers seeing horse carriages in the streets and reminiscently recalls that 20 years ago the only way of reaching the Beach Road market from Tanjong Rhu was by way of the sea in a sampan. As be lounges in the spacious hall of the new bungalow in Tanjong Rhu, built by his son-in-law, Mr. Wee Kheng Chiang, chairman of the United Chinese Bank, Singapore, Mr. Ong marvels at the change time Las wrought in Singapore. TO-DAY’S "SILENT CHARIOT.” The Singapore of 1936 is far different from that of 1916. The old familiar spots have given way to new buildings, schools, parks and roads, and where the horse drawn carriage used to go klop-klopping down the street, the silent chariot of to-day, the motor-car, has taken its place. Mr. Ong has the distinction of being the first Chinese in Sarawak to be made a Companion of the Star of Sarawak, a high recognition of the Government for services rendered. Born in Sarawak, he first came to Singapore when 18 years of age. Tie spent two years in a local school, went back to Sarawak and only returned the following year to marry a Singapore girl. He was unfortunate to lose his wife and arrived in Singapore again two years later to marry a second time. HEAD OF COMMUNITY. In Sarawak Mr. Ong is the recognized head of the Chinese community. He was the first chairman of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce in Sarawak and also the first chairman of its Hokkien Kongsi. He has also occupied a position on the Board of the Farm Syndicate and was a member of the Committee of Administration in Sarawak. From 1911—1920 he was president of a magisterial court for dealing with Chinese cases—a position which was entirely honorary. Mr. Ong is in Singapore purely "for pleasure” and to see a few of his relations. He has nearly fifty children, grand-children and great grand¬ children, most of whom are in Sarawak. —Sunday Times. Shingles. Many of us recall our astonishment on discovering that our attractively weathered roofs were not covered with slates, as we had thought, but with belian shingles—or, as we usually prefer to call them, ''ataps.” And it is perhaps not generally recognised that this form of roof-covering is by no means con¬ fined to this country, a fact that should have some commercial value. Shingles have been used from the earliest histori¬ cal times both for roof and wall-covering, and, of course, were first used in this country by the aboriginal peoples. The early settlers of Canada and the United States may be regarded as the modern pioneers of shingled roofs on a large scale but they have been used in many countries of the Old World and are now beginning to get recogni¬ tion in the United Kingdom principally as a result of the initiative of the British Columbian manu¬ facturers of cedar shingles. People in the Malay Peninsula have in the past fought shy of wooden ataps, perhaps both on account of prejudice and the high cost of imported teak shingles but, there also, efforts are now being made to popularise locally made shingles of impregnated mengeris. The mengeris shingles, unlike our belian atap, are tapered, following the custom adopted in America and elsewhere. The taper is given in the interest of stability, the greater thickness at the base assist¬ ing to prevent warping, but experience has shown that our own form which is of uniform thickness throughout is perfectly satisfactory and lies flat under the most exacting conditions. The original standard shingle in this country was split by hand to dimensions of 18" x 3 1/2" x 1/5" to 1/2" and long held the Geld against any attempt to in¬ troduce the sawn variety. This was due principally to the fear that sawn shingles, possibly cut across the grain of the wood, would be more liable to warp or split, but in the last few years there has been an increasing demand for the latter and this demand must be accepted as evidence that the sawn variety is at least as satisfactory as the other since there is no price advantage. The sawn shingle has, of course, one great advantage at the outset, namely its uniformity of thickness, but this could not offset the very great drawback of any tendency to warp. Fortunately there is no such tendency. A note of warning must, however, be sounded here. There is more danger of sapwood being included in the sawn variety end the attention of producers should be given to careful grading as the sapwood of belian is notoriously liable to infestation by beetles (bubok). There has always been a certain amount of com¬ petition from other forms of roofing, particularly tiles and also asbestos-cement or other sheets, but for domestic roofing and many types of public buildings the shingle has remained unchallenged, and it needs no propaganda in this country. But the question arises as to whether greater advantage cannot be taken of   the      undoubted     qualities      of     belian ataps by an extension of the trade outside our own borders, and it is suggested that the new interest shown in shingles in Malaya and also their increasing use in South Africa might warrant investigation by the producers of the possibilities of these markets. With the price of belian ataps as high as $100 per laksa it has been stated that the cost of covering 100 square feet would be roughly $7 as compared with $20 for Indian tiles and $25 for asbestos corrugated sheets, and it would therefore seem that, with the added advantage of light weight and good insulating properties (as compared with tiles), pleasing appearance (as compared with asbestos) and undoubted durability, the shingle is in a strong com¬ petitive position. —T.C, Some notes on the breeding of the Edible Turtle (Chelone mydas) in Sarawak. BY E. BANKS, CURATOR, SARAWAK MUSEUM. The Islands of Talang Talang off the coast of Sarawak doubtless served as a resort for pirates in early times, but with the arrival of a more peaceful regime an enterprising Malay acquired them for the sake of the eggs laid there by the many turtles visiting the islands for that purpose. The islands came into prominence in about 1875, when one of this Malay's sons threatened to shoot the Governor of British North Borneo, then on a visit, as a result of which his right to the collection of turtle eggs was taken away by the Rajah of Sarawak and allotted among the leading Malay Datus or Chiefs, an arrangement which persists at His Highness the Rajah’s pleasure to this day. The islands are quite small, situated from five to six miles from the mainland ; Talang Talang Besar and Talang Talang Kechil lie off the mouth of the Simatan River, between Lundu and Cape Datu, Satang Besar lying off the Santubong entrance to the Kuching River. The actual sandy beaches where the turtles lay comprise only a fraction of the islands, and their small size is even more remarkable considering the number of turtles which use them. I am indebted to the present holders of the turtle egg rights of the islands, namely the Datu Shah¬ bandar, the Datu Imam, the Datu Mentri, and to the Secretary’ for Native Affairs, Mr. F. II. Pollard, for access to the very complete accounts kept for several years recording the number of turtles and the eggs they lay nightly on the three islands. I have also been able to visit the islands and examine the turtles, and no account would be complete without mention of the whole-hearted assistance rendered by Bujang Nawi, the Malay keeper living on Talang Talang Besar. With the exception of one or two visits yearly from the Hawkflbill Turtle (Chelone imbricata), valued for its tortoise-shell, the only species to visit the  islands    is    the    Green    or    Edible    Turtle      (chelone mydas), and it is an eerie sight on a moonlight night at high tide to see scores of these four-hundred- pound monsters emerge from the sea, black and shiny like so many enormous leeches or slugs, and struggle slowly up the beach before depositing their eggs in the sand above high-water mark. The laying of the Green Turtle has often been described and may only briefly be referred to here. On calm nights as early as 8 p.m. and as late as 4 a.m. the female turtles approach the shore and crawl out of the surf onto the sand, at this stage being easily frightened back into the water by strange noises. Raising her head, she gives four or five jerks forwards, gripping the sand with fore and hind flippers and moving from two to three yards in all. after which the head is lowered, the animal heaves a sort of tired sigh and takes a rest for a minute or two before repeating the perfor¬ mance, for the weight of its shell or carapace makes breathing on land so difficult that if captured alive they die of suffocation if not turned over on their hacks. It is necessary for the animals to lay above the high-tide line, waler instantly killing the eggs, some beasts laving as far inland as there is sand, others being content with just a few yards above high-water mark. These breeding turtles arc all the same size to within a few inches, the carapace or shell measuring from 3 feet 6 inches to 4 feet in length and young or old could not be distinguished by size alone. Having reached a suitable spot the sand is scooped out of a broad shallow hollow about six feet wide and two to three feet in depth, the fore and hind flippers scattering the sand in jets right and left and behind ; after this, a vertical shaft is dug down about eighteen inches, the hind feet working alternately as scoops, the soles turning up at the outside edges to retain the scooped-up sand, which is thrown away back-handedly. The turtle then puts its tail down the hole; the eggs arc laid usually two at a time in a few minutes, the hole is covered up With sand by the hind feet, and sand is finally scattered about in all directions to conceal the nest, which by this time has been carefully marked with a flag by the collector, who removes the contents at daylight when the turtle has gone. Her departure seawards after laying is just as laborious as her arrival some three or four hours before, and it is often daylight before some of them reach the sea. The comparison between their pro- gress on land and their quick—and doubtless very thankful—Escape into deep waler is very marked. On reselling the sea, the turtle is eagerly awaited by a maie and mating may be observed taking place on the surfs e during the daytime, the only occasion when for once in a way the creatures are unwary. Just whether each female turtle has her own mate or whether one male serves many is not yet clear, nor is the gestation period really known; both by purposely marking with paint and by noting such peculiarities as the loss of a flipper to a shark or some peculiar barnacles on its shell, the people on the islands have shown that the same turtle comes up at least three times in the course of the year, at about fourteen-day intervals. There no doubt about this and it has been recorded else- where, but so far no record has been made of the same animal returning to the same place year after year, the point marks on the females’ carapace being apparently rubbed off by the male in mating. Malavs eat the eggs but not turtle meat, and the animals have been strictly preserved, a heavy penalty being inflicted for killing one; in Ceylon, Seychelles and elsewhere the eggs are left to hatch and a proportion of the adults killed off for the sake of their meat, a more profitable proceeding to which I shall refer later. Of the Loggerhead Turtle (caretta caretta), whose eggs are of value but not its meat. I have only beard once in Sarawak, but I have seen none on the islands nor do the people , there recognize i from photographs or descriptions; it differs from the Green Turtle in having an eagle- likc “tooth” to its beak, five or six costals and twenty-seven marginal scales instead of four and twenty-five, and two claws instead of one on the fore flipper. Though turtles lay all the year round, the season is at its height from about May to September, the beginning and ending being doubtless somewhat dependent on the weather. In good years Talang Talang Besar produces over 400,000 eggs in August and again in September, and in normal years from 200—300.000 eggs, dropping to 20 to 10.000 eggs in the winter months. Apart from the presence of a fairly definite breeding season, the monthly and annual figures are remarkable for indicating good and bad breeding vears as a whole, and it is of interest here to examine the possible causes. The Kuching-Lundu district is subject to a fine, dry period from about April to October, and a very wet and stormy period (known as the landas) varying in intensity, from November to March. Our only means of gauging the continued severity or otherwise of this landas or wet monsoon is from the rainfall in Kuching and Lundu, situated some eight to ten miles in a direct line from the sea. The following figures therefore show the Kuching Annual Rainfall and the total annual collection of turtle eggs, when it will be seen fairly clearly that a wet year—indicating a rough and stormy landas from November to March —is followed by a poor breeding season on the islands from May to September, and vice versa, a dry year with a mild landas meaning a heavy breeding season. The average annual rainfall in Kuching is about 160 inches, corresponding to a collection of about 2 1/4 million turtle eggs the following year; a very dry year with a mild landas such as 1933-34 entailed a big laying season in 1934, totalling over three million eggs, whilst a wet year and a rough landas such as in 1934-35, meant a very poor year in 1935, with barely a million eggs collected. Just what effect a rough landas has on turtles it is not easy to say; it may scatter them far and wide, drive them away from their feeding grounds, for they are vegetarians, feeding on a kind of sea grass; or it may prevent mating, which takes place on the surface, although as the gestation period is not known and mating certainly takes place after laying it cannot yet be said for certain that this is one of the causes. The rough seas further dis¬ perse far and wide the sands on the beaches, which are certainly not as suitable for laying in the year following. On Talang Talang Besar and Kechil turtles average from 105—110 eggs at a "sitting" rather more on Satang (110—120). either because the island is less crowded and disturbed or because the collectors make a cleaner sweep. The record lay¬ ings certainly go to Satang, one turtle having deposited 176 and another 162 on May 10th and 18th. 1933, respectively. The record nightly totals of course go to Talang Talang Besar, where during 1934. 180 turtles on August 1st laid 18.283 eggs and on August 2nd 183 laid 19.037 eggs. Talang Talang Besar contributes from 52 - 56% of the annual total. Talang Talang Kechil 38 - 40% and Satang 7 8% with remarkable regularity. The night is divided into three four-hour watches by the collectors, who keep a count of the turtles coming up in their watch, the 10 p.m.—2 am. period being the most crowded time as the turtles do not come up much before dusk, and have mostly finished laying before daylight. No account of the turtles would be complete without considering their commercial aspects. At present the eggs are gathered nightly, dried in the sun. packed in wooden boxes containing approxi¬ mately eight hundred apiece, and shipped to Kuching ns often as once a week in the fine weather. When new-laid they are not quite com¬ pletely full but rapidly lose moisture on being stored, those in the bottom of the box often going bad or arriving so deflated that they fetch but little price. The fortunes of the turtle eggs after collection are outlined roughly below.  Turtle eggs are consumed or given away by the holders of the collection rights or else sold in Kuching or exported to Singapore, and the total value above is a potential one taken from the export price, no allowance being made for those that go bad or are eaten by the owners. The export trade in late years has been comparatively small, the local consumption and sale high; from 1928 and 1932-35 this varied only from 88 - 98%, whilst the price ranged from 45 cents to $1.09 per hundred and the total number of eggs from one to three millions. In these years at any rate the export has borne no relation to price and quantity, though for some reason in 1927 the export was much greater, though price and quantity were as in 1928 and quantity as in 1932. It is possible to obtain from Customs reports the quantities exported for other years and the price, but on the whole it does not seem likely that the 8%—the average of the total exported during 1928 and 1932-1935—holds good for other years; in fact there is some evidence that the export has been on the decline except for . sporadic years. It is of some interest to note that 1917 and 1919 were very poor years for export and probably totals, judging by those for 1933 and 1935, though it is only    a    comparison.    The      rainfall    for 1917    was    218 \and for 1918 185, both very high, January, February and March 1917 in Kuching totalling 54. 30 and 20 inches respectively, indicating a bad landas though the 1918-19 landas does not appear to , have been unduly heavy. It does, however, hear out the assumption that the bad weather in the early part of 1917 meant a poor laying season that year just as the bad landas for the 1934-35 season did for 1935. In 1905 and 1906. which were two of the driest years ever recorded in Kuching, an average of a million eggs were exported annually, which may indicate that a mild landas meant a still finer laying season, though as we have a seen, it is not always safe to assume for certain that a large export meant a large total collection of eggs. As 1 have said, many eggs go bad in transit or rrive in the town in poor condition for sale, and the use of a preservative such as water-glass is being tried to keep them in better shape. Turtle eggs appearing in outstations are often eagerly purchased, and it may be possible to preserve, grade and export the eggs to these places rather than Singapore. With regard to the question of turtle meat, in other countries the eggs are left to hatch and the adults taken, but there seems little prospect of such au arrangement happening here. As a rule no eggs whatever are left to hatch, though a month’s truce has occasionally been declared on one island : the Malays do demand the eggs and may not eat the meat, so the present arrangement is likely to continue. The potential value of the eggs works out at from $7-23,000 per annum ; the cost of collecting, etc., is estimated at about $6,200 per annum, which does not always leave a great profit when the eggs consumed and gone bad are taken into account. Seeing that from 13-30.000 turtle layings take place annually, which means a minimum of 4-10.000 turtles if they all lay three times a year, it is not unlikely that some of these could be spared for the sake of the meat in favour of allowing the eggs to hatch. The Malays, however, scarcely consider it any¬ thing better than a waste of time to try and let the eggs hatch out. many going rotten during the 50 days' incubation and the young turtles heading straight down to the sea where, as it is some time before they can swim and dive adequately, they form a most, easy prey to small sharks and other predatory fishes,—in fact it has been estimated that only 2—3% survive to grow up. In the circum¬ stances it is astonishing that the stock maintains itself, for though the growth rate has not been accurately determined, the young turtle has a carapace length of about an inch and a half at birth, and judging by the growth rate of the Loggerhead, whose young are a similar size. at birth and whose adults measure much the same, the young turtles have only just doubled their size in six months. A captive Green Turtle at the age of 28 months had a carapace length of 18 inches which gives him about seven years, even then probably an under¬ estimate, before be arrives at the adult size of four feet carapace length. Nowadays turtle meat is only fetching 10-20 cents per kati in Singapore, and there is little likelihood of any local consumption or export trade at this price. Eggs preserved in water- lass mixed with wafer 1 : 30-40 have so far proved satisfactory, but further enquiry is needed. The Honorary Secretary will welcome from Members suggestions made direct in writing or through the Suggestion Book for the purchase of suitable Library Books and will curry out such suggestions as far as funds permit. E. BANKS, Curator, Museum & Library. First Division News. AUGUST. Mr. W. F. Dick, Resident, First Division, reports s follows :— I took over the affairs of the Division from Mr. F. H Pollard on the 5th; the following day proceeded to Serian with Mr. E. H. Elam, District Officer, and Mr. T. A. Reid, Assistant Engineer, Public Works Department. 1 was surprised to notice that practically every pepper garden on the roadside was well cared for, and there were many young gardens which must have been plained within the last six months. The only abandones garden was one which I was informed was 18 years old. I was also interested to see plantations of kapok, bananas, coffee and krebang all flourishing along the roadside. ’ The bazaar at the 32nd mile consisting of three shops appeared to be flourishing, and two more shops were in course of being erected; these and the shops at Serian are all of the new. standard type and are a great improvement on the usual bazaar shophouse. "The new Serian bazaar consists of ten new shops and preparation is being made for the erection of another four. The low ground at the, back of the new shops is in urgent need of being filled before the landas, as otherwise there would be a risk of landslides during the wet season and possible damage to the new shops. A special vote to cover the cost of this work is being applied for. The appearance of the. station has changed considerably since I last saw it twelve months ago; the site of the old leaf-attap bazaar has been cleared and the level raised in readiness for the new Police barracks which are to be erected there. The old jail from Gedong has been re-erected, and. although somewhat small, is a substantial belian building. The Court and Office, which was the old Sadong Mine office, appears to be very satisfactory and part of the first floor makes a very good dispensary. I left al 6.30) a.m. on the 13th on a visit to . Bau and met Mr. L. K. Morse, the Acting District Officer, at Siniawan, where I examined the site of a proposed cinema hall. The erosion of the river bank at the back of the bazaar is serious, and at least one building is in imminent danger of collapse. From Siniawan we proceeded to Baku and discussed the question of rebuilding the bazaar which was burnt down last year. The old bazaar conristed of leaf attap shacks and had outlived its usefulness; it is doubtful whether any of the old shopkeepers would be prepared to put up decent shophouses and it was decided not to plan a layout for a new bazaar, but that one or two shops might be built to the approved standard design. From there we proceeded to Bau where various matters were discussed : the rebuilding of the barracks is very necessary and an extension to the market should be put in hand as soon as possible. “On the 18th 1 proceeded to Lundu with Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, the Acting District Officer, by m.l. Lucile, arriving at 3.30 p.m. The station appeared to be well kept. In the afternoon visited the Malay school at Stunggang which has been built by the local Malays as the old school belonging to Abang Haji Dewa was too small to house all the boys. “The next morning on September 20th we left at 5.15 a.m. for Telok Serabang, where we picked up the Tua Kampong, and then went on to Telok Gadong where Japanese fishing boats arc known to go ashore ; the water is very deep here. We anchored in 37 feet of water about 200 yards from the shore; there were signs on shore of the Japanese having recently been there tanning their nets. Wo left again at 10.30 a.m. and returned to Lundu, arriving at 3.45 p.m. The following day. Friday 21st. we left at 9.15 a.m. and arrived in Kuching at 3.30 p.m. "Applications for coconut land on the Coast are on the increase; the embargo on rubber planting is probably partly responsible, but the success of other coconut gardens on the Coast which have been under the supervision of the Senior Agricul¬ tural Officer is probably the main reason for this demand. “The question of properly laid out bazaars at small villages has been under consideration lately, and it appears that traders generally are keen on putting up proper bazaars but find themselves unable to compete with the ordinary boat hawker who has no expenses, and who often gets food from his customers for nothing. It is obviously far better to encourage the shops and discourage the boat hawker; this could be done by restricting the number of boat hawkers licences, or increasing the licence fee “ Five inquests were held in Kuching during the month. On August 10th a verdict of suicide during temporary insanity was returned at the inquiry held into the death of Chiam Choon Boo, a Hylam Chinese, who threw himself into the river from the wharf of the Borneo Company, Limited. At an inquiry into the death of No. 579 Constable Lihi bin Omar, who died suddenly after no apparent illness on August 6th, 19.36. a verdict of death from natural causes was recorded. A similar verdict was returned on August 11th at an inquiry held into the death of a Cantonese named Yip Ah Kiew. This man was found lying in Ewe Hai Street, and it being apparent that he was seriously ill. the ambulance was summoned. Before reaching the hospital, however, the man died. Another verdict of death from natural causes was recorded on August 26th at an inquiry into the death of Bujang bin Abang Mat Nor, of Central Road, Kuching, whose death was due to ulceration of the stomach. A mysterious tire broke out on August 12th in a room at No. 50, Carpenter Street, Kuching. The door of the room was locked and had to be forced open by the Police; on entering they found the slightly charred body of a man lying upon a bed which was still smouldering. The bed and surround¬ ings smelt strongly of kerosene oil. At the inquest heard on August 26th. it was revealed that when forced open, the door was locked on the inside. An open verdict was returned, there being insufficient evidence to support a theory that deceased had committed suicide. On August 12th. Georgina Mong, aged 3 years, (he daughter of a dresser in the Medical Department, was knocked down and killed by a Public Works Department lorry. At the inquest a verdict of accidental death was recorded. The driver of the lorry was exonerated from all blame. verdict of accidental death by drowning was recorded on August 31st at the inquiry into the death of Sebul bin Ibut of Sejijak. whose boat capsized off Sejijak during a storm. The District Officer, Kuching, records with regret the death, which occurred on July 10th, of Haji Salleh bin Mat, Tua Kampong of Boyan. Haji Salleh had completed seven years in Government Service. Setar.    Tua    Kampong    of    Merdang     Lumut,      was forced to resign his appointment on August 22nd on account of ill-health. Gending. Tua Kampong of Merdang Gayam, was instructed to take over the affairs of Merdang Lumut. Accompanied by the Datu Amar, the District Officer, Kuching, proceeded to Setakan on August 12th. This village had not been visited by an Administrative Officer for more than ten years. On August 28th the District Officer, accom¬ panied by the Datu Amar, visited the villages at Batu Kitang and Lubok Buya. It is of interest to report that the village at Lubok Buya is kept in extraordinarily clean condition, the natives taking great pride in its general appearance. Mr. Oh Teow Teng, Court Interpreter, Kuching, resigned his appointment with effect from August 14th. Mr. Lim Kim Han. Chief Cashier in the Resident's Office. Kuching, resigned his appoint¬ ment on August 11th. This officer had completed more than 30 years' service. In his report for August the District Officer, Kuching, mentions that through the enterprise of Abang Sumali, the son of Datu Haji Suhaili, a somewhat unique method of fishing on a large scale is being attempted between Tanjong Sepang and Bulan Lakei. The method, winch is known as panau, is as follows :— A float (6 inches by 4 inches) is made and to this is attached a line the length of which varies according to the depth of water to be worked. A heavy stone is fastened to the other end of the line in order to keep it vertical below the surface, and some 24 feet below the float a large nipah frond is secured so that it is at right angles to the line. This frond offers a certain amount of shade, and fish collect in large numbers under it. The trap having been set in this manner, nine men approach in a boat with ropes and a large conical net known as idus. The net is 24 feet in diameter, and 42 feet in length. When close to the float one man slips overboard with a length of rope, one end of which is secured in the boat, and dives to a point on the vertical rope of the trap about 30 feet, below the nipah frond. From this point he contrives to disturb the fish which move gently upwards to the frond. He repeats the process, getting a little nearer the frond each time, and as he approaches, the fish move out towards the unsecured end of the frond and in the direction of the position taken up by the boat. When he considers that the fish are in the desired position die diver tugs at the rope thus signalling the other men to dive in and approach the fish from below with the conical net, which is held open by being tied to each man’s wrists from points at regular intervals round its circumference. Almost all the fish which have collected are taken in the net as it is brought gradually to the surface. It is a sur¬ prising fact that throughout the process the fish shew no apparent desire to get away. The general principle adopted by a community employing this method is to cover an area with such traps at intervals of about 200 in depths increasing from 10 to 20 fathoms. Abang Sumali has enlisted the aid of seventeen Melanau fishermen from Bintulu, whence this type of fishing is said to have originated. Rumours of the efficacy of this method have reached fishermen of Bako, Buntal. Kuala Tebas and Santubong, and considerable interest is being displayed. It is alleged that certain Chinese fishermen, regarding jealously the largo quantities of fish secured by this means, make a practice of severing the lines of the traps. Catches of six pikuls weight have been made at a single trap. Nine civil and sixteen criminal eases came before the Bau Courts during the month. Of the latter, the most important were His High¬ ness the Rajah vs. Chin Chui Jin, who was sentenced to one year’s rigorous imprsionment under section 825, and His Highness the Rajah Liew Chaw, who was sentenced to a similar sentence under section 411. On August 4th one Yong Fah was brought to Tondong Police Station badly cut about the head. He was not expected to live, but made a wonderful recovery. His. assailant was arrested some days later and was duly convicted under section 325 as mentioned above. He was exceedingly lucky not to have been tried on a more serious charge. 392 persons were treated at Bau Government Dispensary during August and 80 N.A.B. injections were given. The District Officer, Bau, reports that there appears to be a definite decrease in the number of malaria cases in Bau township and the mines. Three men were treated for arsenical poisoning at Kim Lee mine; it is believed that they were smelting arsenical ore. It is understood that the men have since died in Kuching Hospital. The District Officer, Bau, records with regret the death of Orang Kaya Busu of Suba, Buan, who fell from a fruit tree and broke his back. It is believed that he was one of the oldest Orang Kaya in Upper Sarawak. Dahan Rubber Estates harvested 17,000 lbs. of dry rubber during August. The Manager, Mr. J. B. Simpson, proceeded on home leave, his place at Dahan being filled by Mr. A. R. Dee from British North Borneo. One new mining company, the “Oriental," com¬ menced leaching on August. 15th, and one of the oldest companies, the Hua Kiaw, ceased operations. Applications for Exclusive Prospecting Licence in the area bounded by Kampong Suba Buan, Opar, Serasot, Gumbang and Pengkallan Tebang have been received; where applications were approved, steps were taken to protect the native rights. One application for an area of several square miles was received, but the application was not approved. The average price of gold in July was $58.30. The total production was 1,885.621 fine ozs. Saburan mine treated fifty-eight tons of ore and obtained 71.36 line ozs. of gold; other mines treated two or three thousand tons to obtain a similar amount. The following table gives the individual output of gold from the various mines for July, 1936 :— The District Officer, Serian and Samarahan states that five cases of breach of passport regulations were dealt with in his district during the month; in all thirty Netherlands East Indies subjects were arrested for entering Sarawak territory at Balai Kerangan without passes. When arrested, all made the same excuse, namely that the price of rubber is so much higher in Sarawak than in Dutch territory that they were anxious to find work as tappers and earn some easy money. Deposits to cover survey fees have been collected from eight of the Land Dayak kampongs involved in the land disputes mentioned in last month’s report, but no further progress has been made as yet with the cases as all Dayaks have been busy burning off and planting out padi. Good bums have been experienced by nearly all, though some of the Sea Dayaks in the ulu Samarahan bad not burnt off by the end of the month. Choo Man Siong and twelve other Chinese from Samarahan applied verbally last June for land for coconuts at Tanjong Panglong, Simunjan. The Malays have been interviewed, and they wish to keep their padi land on the edge of the Sadong river which will probably mean that the Chinese will be cooped in at the back just like the Bugis are at Sungei Pendam. If these applications are approved, either the Malays must be asked to move to another place to farm or the Chinese at the time of survey must state definitely where they wish to make their drains, otherwise the same trouble may start between the Simunjan Malays and Chinese as has been going on for years between the Bugis and Malays of Kuala Sadong. Below are extracts from the report of the District Officer, Serian and Samarahan, for August :— "1 visited Simunjan from August 13th to 23rd, this long stay being necessary as 1 did not visit that station in July owing to travelling in the Ulu Sadong. I left for the Sadong Coast and Samarahan on 24th and was still away at the end of the month. In all villages where there are new demarcated bazaar areas I explained the terms and conditions of shophouse tenure to intending applications, and showed them a plan of the standard shophouse which they will be required to build if they wish to continue trading in 1937. It is hoped that by making traders erect a belian house costing about $300 they will be encouraged to settle more permanently in. their districts, and that a better class of trader will be encouraged as a settler. Traders at Pendam, Jaie ,Moyan, Nonok and Tuang will be Required to erect their houses to design within one year of application, but those at Tambirat, Sebandi and Sebangan having received five-year leases will remain in their leaf-attap shops until the expiry of their titles, and will then be required to come into line with Nonok. Semrah will be always allowed leaf-attap shops since erosion there necessitates the whole bazaar and kampong mov¬ ing every ten years. "I explained to the Malays of Serpan Moyan, Reba and Tuang about titles to padi land, and on the coast they seemed to welcome them. It was pointed out again that there is no compulsion whatsoever to take out a title, hut the Malays of Tuang, I believe, purposely misconstrued what the Native Officer and I told them. "I arrived at Muara Tuang on 29th and visited the Japanese Estate on 31st." Abang Zamhari, Native Officer, Lundu, reports that all Tua-tua Kampong, Pengarah and Orang Kaya were down during the month and that various matters regarding the administration were discussed. St. Thomas’ School. JUBILEE MEMORIAE FUND. A further good response has been made to the appeal for a Bursary Fund in commemoration of the Golden Jubilee bringing the total up to $5139.63. The Committee gratefully acknowledges the following donation received or promised up to and including September 23rd, 1936. Football. 1ST DIVISION—CHINESE CUP. 2ND DIVISION—JAMES BUCHANAN CUP. Kuching versus H.M.S. “Herald A return Overs. 8 6 2.2 Mdns. 1 1 1 Runa. 82 19 2 Wkts. 4 5 match was played on the following afternoon and resulted as follows :— Kuching Nondescripts 140 (Baptist 48, Roy Fox 40) H.M.S. Herald 64. —W.J.C. St. Michael’s Catholic Club. PING PONG CHAMPIONSHIP. Sarawak Turf Club. AUTUMN MEETING, 1936. RESULTS. FIRST DAY. Saturday, 26th September, 1936. Also ran :—Flying Fox 8.0 1/2, Happy Boy II 11.0. The field got away together with Silver Blaze starting slowly. When they appeared at the five furlongs Happy Boy was in the lead closely followed by Bintang. At the three furlongs the field became hunched. Coming into the straight Bintang went ahead followed by Silver Blaze and Happy Boy with Kijang lying handy. Kijang spurted from the Ara tree and overhauled Bintang in the last twenty yards to win in record time, Flying Fox fourth. 1/2 length, 1 length. Time—1 minute 32 l/5th seconds. (Record). Tote : $11. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $727.60 Ticket No. 215, 2nd prize $363.80 Ticket No. 1044 , 3rd prize $181.90 Ticket No. 543. Starters $90.90 each Tickets Nos. 443 and 141. RACE 2.—3.0 p.m. THE SEKAMA STAKES. 5 furlongs. DIVISION II. Also ran : Blue Bird 9.3, Moonshine Jr. 8.4, Nightingale 8.0 and Manis 9.3. After a delay through the restlessness of Jackson the field got away to a good start remaining bunched until the straight were King Kong took the lead followed by Jackson, Blue Bird and Jubilee. In the last few yards Jackson and Jubilee spurted to gain second and third places respectively: King Kong gaining distance in every stride won easily. Blue Bird fourth. 5 lengths. 1/2 length. Time—1 minute 16 2/5th seconds. Tote : $3. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $695.60 Ticket No. 1582, 2nd prize $347.80 Ticket No. 1105, 3rd prize $173.90 Ticket No. 1502, Starters $43.40 each Tickets Nos. 424, 1171, 949 and 1108. RACE 3.—3.30 p.m. THE DATUS’ STAKES. 6 furlongs. DIVISION III. Also ran :—Add H 8.7, Lucky Star 10.0, Hairan 10.0, Giok 10.0, and Madu 10.0 The field appeared at the five furlongs in a bunch with Lucky Star leading from Tarzan. Near the straight Tarzan went ahead but Rex and Langkon came up to beat him into third place. Adil II fourth. 1 1/2 lengths. 3 lengths. Time—1 minute 34 seconds. Tote : $6.70. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $661.60 Ticket No. 1458, 2nd prize $330.80 Ticket No. 5G7, 3rd prize $165.40 Ticket No. 996, Starters each $33 Tickets Nos. 761, 1822, 1771, 1309 and 484. RACE 4.—4.0 p.m. THE B.C.L. STAKES. 3 furlongs. DIVISION I. Also ran :—Happy Boy II 11.0. Sintak Bulan jumped smartly away from the start and the others stood little chance of ever catching him. Medin pulled up Happy Boy after a few yards, his explanation being that he feared his pony was going into (he ditch. 5 lengths. Time—43 4/5th seconds. Tote: $1.50. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $540.40 Ticket No. 909, 2nd prize $270.20 Ticket No. 1297. 3rd prize $135.10 Ticket No. 1170. RACE 5.—4.30 p.m. THE MATANG STAKES. 4 furlongs. DIVISION II. Also ran :—Jackson 8.0, Nightingale 8.4 and Blue Bird 10.0. The field remained bunched to the straight where King Kong went ahead and was never troubled. Jackson fourth. 1 1/2 lengths, 2 lengths. Time—59 4/5th seconds. Tote : $1.60. Cash Sweep : 1st prize  $389.20 Ticket No. 759, 2nd prize $194.60 Ticket  No. 1001, 3rd prize $97.30 Ticket No. 683,  Starters each $32.10 Tickets Nos. 942, 484 and 726. RACE 6.—5.0 p.m. THE PENDING STAKES. 3 furlongs. DIVISION III. Also ran :—Tarzan 8.10, Rex 8.12, Bunga Intan 9.4, Hairan 10.0, Morris 10.0. Suka 8.2. Mist 8.7, Plandok 8.7 and Giok 10.0. The start was delayed by Giok. When the field eventually got away Bunga Intan led from Rhubarb. At the Ara tree Rhubarb went ahead followed by Langkon; the former coming away to win strongly by four lengths. Bintang Tiga fought out third place with Bunga Intan and Tarzan. 1 length, 1/2 length. Time—-16 seconds. Tote : $2.90. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $370.80 Ticket No. 1177, 2nd prize $185.40 Ticket No. 219. 3rd prize $92.60 Ticket No. 1179, Starters each $10.30 Tickets Nos. 1023. 681. 802. 881, 520. 749. 137, 1026 and 617. RACE 7.—5.30 p.m. THE RANEE’S CUP. 1 mile. Also ran :—Silver Blaze 8.11. Flying Fox 8.3, Manis 8.4 and Lumadin 7.12. Silver Blaze led the way into the straight from Jubilee with Kijang lying fourth. Kijang came up strongly from here to win and Jubilee and Bintanq overhauled Silver Blaze. 1 length, 1/2 length. Time—2 minutes 8 2/5th seconds. Tote : $2.60. Cash Sweep: 1st prize $304.40 Ticket No. 538, 2nd prize $152.20 Ticket No. 55G, 3rd prize $76.10 Ticket No. 508, Starters each $19 Tickets Nos. 741, 1043, 433 and 801. SECOND DAY. Monday, 28th September, 1936. RACE 1.—2.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STEAMSHIP Co.'s STAKES. 5 furlongs. Also ran : Happy Boy II 10.7. Flying Fox 8.3 1/2 and Burong Gruda 8.10. Sintak Bulan immediately took the lead and after two furlongs was out by himself with Kijang and Burong Gruda tailing off. In the last furlong Silver Blaze and Kijang came up strongly but the distance was not far enough for their liking and Sintak Bulan passed the post still one length ahead. 1 length, 1/2 length. Time—1 minute 17 seconds. Tote : $2.10. Cash Sweep: 1st prize $780.40 Ticket No. 351, 2nd prize $390.20 Ticket No. 1015, 3rd prize $195.10 Ticket No. 1529. Starters each $65 Tickets Nos. 1481, 1685 and 1849. RACE 2.—3.0 p.m. THE SIME DARBY STAKES. 6 furlongs.  Also ran :—Jubilee 10.0 and Manis 9.0. The field remained bunched to the three furlongs. King Kong took the lead from here to win easily. Jackson overhauled Nightingale near the finish to gain second place. Jubilee fourth. 3 lengths, 1/2 length. Time 1 minute 34 4/5th seconds. Tote : $1.90. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $720 Ticket No. 1076, 2nd prize $360 Ticket No. 1815. 3rd prize $180 Ticket No. 233, Starters each $90 Tickets Nos. 1401 and 1460. •• RACE. 3.—3.30 p m. THE SARAWAK STAKES. 5 furlongs. Also ran  Bintang  Tiga 8.7, Langkon 10.0, Madu 8.10 and Hairan 9.0. Tarzan was never troubled. Adil II challenged in the last furlong but. fell away again to be beaten into third place by Rex. 1 length, 1 length. Time—1 minute 18 l/5th seconds. Tote : $8. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $720 Ticket No. 190, 2nd prize $360 Ticket No. 448. 3rd prize $180 Ticket No. 1301, Starters each $45 Tickets Nos. 1531, 1183, 1124 and 1660. RACE 4.—4.0 p.m. THE PADUNGAN STAKES. 4 furlongs. Also ran : -Silver Blaze 8.0. Happy Boy, after  disappointing his  backers  in his previous races, sprang  a surprise and  led  all  the way to beat the much fancied Bintang. 2 lengths, neck. Time 1 minute 0 2/5th seconds. Tote : $9.10. Cash Sweep : 1st  prize $689.60 Ticket  No.  1971, 2nd prize $344.80  Ticket No. 1088,  3rd  prize $172.40 Ticket No.  442. Starter  $172.40  Ticket No. 748. RACE 5.—4.30 p.m. THE STATES SPRINT 3 furlongs. and Jackson 8.0. King Kong was drawn in a bad position and found himself bunched in at the start. Blue Bird had a good lead at the road followed by Moonshine Jr. and Manis. Manis and King Kong came up strongly near the post hut Blue Bird succeeded in holding on to a slight lead. Nightingale fourth. 1/2 length, 1/2 length. Time—45 l/5th seconds. Tote : $3.30. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $516.40 Ticket No. 1222, 2nd prize $258.20 Ticket No. 274, 3rd prize $129.10 Ticket No. 574, Starters each $43 Tickets Nos. 870, 912 and 1174. RACE 6.—5.0 p.m. THE TURF CLUB STAKES. 4 furlongs. Also ran :—Langkon 10.0. Bunga Intan 8.12, Morris 9.0, Lucky Star 8.13. Mist 8.3, Hairan 9.0, Suka 8.3, Bintang Tiga 8.5 and Giok 8.7. Rhubarb, the favourite, appeared to have the race well in hand and led by several lengths most of the way. but Tarzan well ridden by Puyong caught him in the last few strides to win by half a length. 1/2 length, 1/2 length. Time—1 minute 1 3/5th seconds. Tote : $6. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $447.60 Ticket No. 603, 2nd prize $223.80 Ticket No. 227, 3rd prize $111.90 Ticket No. 113, Starters each $12.40 Tickets Nos. 1084, 209 , 388, 1131, 954, 127 , 476, 860 and 852. RACE 7.—5.30 p.m. THE RAJAH'S CUP. R.C. (about 1 l/3rd miles). Also ran :—Flying Fox 8.3 and Bintang 8.7. Silver Blaze  immediately took the lead. At the five furlongs  the field  re-appeared in a  hunch with Silver Blaze still slightly ahead and Bintang last. At the three furlongs Flying Fox overtook Silver Blaze closely followed by Jubilee. Half way down the straight Flying Fox was finished with leaving Jubilee. Silver Blaze and Kijang to fight out the finish. One furlong from home Jubilee took the lead from Silver Blaze. Kijang spurted up strongly near the post and managed to overtake Silver Blaze but his effort was too late to catch Jubilee. 1 1/2 lengths, 1/2 length. Time—2 minutes 50 4/5th seconds. (Record). Tote : $5.90. Cash Sweep : 1st prize $476.40 Ticket No. 668, 2nd prize $238.20 Ticket No. 1167, 3rd prize $119.10 Ticket No. 351, Starters each $59.50 Tickets Nos. 750 and 219. UNLIMITED CASH SWEEP AUTUMN MEETING, 1936 RESULT OF DRAW. TAN SUM GUAN, K. CARGILL, Scrutinisers. Sarawak Club. TENNIS TOURNAMENT. Results are as follows :— MES'S HANDICAP SINGLES. First Round.— Benson scr. beat Baron+ 15 odd games and scr. even, 6—2, 2—6, 6—3; Kitto—15 beat Harding+ 15, 6—3, 6—4, Cargill scr. beat Mansel + 15 odd games and scr. even, 6—4, 6—3. Whale+ 30 a bye. Semi-final.—Kitto—15 beat Benson sen 6—3, 6—2. Cargill scr. beat Whale+ 30, 6—4, 7—5. Final.—Kitto—15 beat Cargill scr. 5—7, 6—4, 6—4. MIXED HANDICAP DOUBLES. First Round.— Dayang Anne and Kitto—15 odd games and scr. even beat Mrs. Lowe and Harding + 15, Mrs. Calvert and Cargill scr. a hve Mrs. Kelley and Baron + 15 beat Mr. Pitt Hardacre and Mitchell—15 odd games and scr. even, by default, Mrs. Kennedy and Mansel, a bye. Semi-final.—Dayang Anne and Kitto beat Mrs. Calvert and Cargill. Mrs. Kennedy and Mansel beat Mrs. Kelley and Baron. Final.—Mrs. Kennedy and Mansel beat Dayang Anne and Kitto. LADIES’ HANDICAP DOUBLES First Round.— Dayang Anne and Mrs. Kennedy scr. beat Mrs. Kelley and Mrs. Pitt Hardacre—15. Second Round.—Mrs. Calvert and Mrs. Lowe scr. beat Dayang Anne and Mrs. Kennedy scr. Third Round.—Mrs. Kelley and Mrs Pitt Hardacre—15 beat Mrs. Calvert and Mrs. Lowe scr. Winners.—Dayang Anne and Mrs. Kennedy. We wish to thank T. J. L. S. Boyd, Esq., for acting as umpire. Tennis. KUCHING OPEN TOURNAMENT, 1936. Additional results :— MEN'S DOUBLES. Second Round.—Chua Teck Hee and Wee Ah Chew beat J. A. Harry and 8. Harry 9—7, 6—3. Ong Hap Ann and Lim Ah Bee beat Mitchell and Cargill by default. Semi-final.—Chua Teck Hee and Wee Ah Chew beat Mat and Ben 6—1, 6—1. Lim Ah Bee and Ong Hap Ann beat Liaw Ah Nyaw and Kho Chong Soo 6—1, 7—5. MEN’S SINGLES. Second Round.—Ong Hap Ann beat Mitchell 6-0, 6-3. Semi-final.—Ong Hap Ann beat Merican 6—4, 6—4. Chua Teck Hee beat Kitto 2—6, 10—8, 6—1. Final.—Chua Teck Hee beat Ong Hap Ann 6—4 6—3 We wish to thank T. J. L. S. Boyd, Esq., for umpiring practically all the matches in this tournament. Second Division News. AUGUST. Mr. P. M. Adams, Resident, Second Division, submits the following report on a recent patrol near the Dutch border :— “On August 1st I met the District Officer, Lubok Antu, at Engkilili and travelled with him to Lubok Antu, spending the night at Buloh. “August 3rd was spent at Lubok Antu, and the following day we proceeded to the Ulu Ai, reaching the block-house at N. Mujan on the fourth day. “The next day we went on foot, accompanied by members of the 'B' force and levies numbering thirty-two all told, along the tinting between Mujan and Batang Ai, spending the night near B. Graji. Later we obtained a good part of Dutch territory, and proceeded along the tinting to B. Makop, which must be about 4,000 feet high, From here we explored along the border in the Ulu Jeklan and Woh area for three days and returned to N. Mujan on the fifth day without finding any trace of rebels or farms. “The Surveyor in the Ulu Batang Ai reported that the main river had its source in B. Graji, but this must be wrong, and it must be further along the tinting beyond B. Makop. “We spent a day at N. Mujan to rest the troops and the following day attended a gawai at R. Nuli, where I met most of the far Ulu Ai chiefs and their following. “The next day we walked across to Lobang Bayar and spent the night at R. Bungkong, and the following day we attended another gawai at R. Abong where the rest of the Ulu Ai were met. “On the 18th we returned to Lubok Antu, and the following day I returned to Simanggang. "The farming prospects in the Ulu Ai are exceedingly bright, good burns having resulted from the drought. “Everyone appeared happy and friendly, and there was no reason to suppose that any of the outlaws are receiving any support, at any rate in the main river above Engkari. “On the 28th, however, a report was received from the Surveyor in Ulu Engkari that his langkau near B. Lanjok had been burgled, and rice and sail stolen. The tracks led to a langkau about four fathoms long, the existence of which was apparently unknown to the Engkari Dayaks. It can only be supposed, therefore, that some of the rebels must be lurking in this vicinity. It seems that the Surveyor had taken his wife with him, and because of this refused to allow the police to follow up the tracks; the District Officer, Lubok Antu. and Mr. F. A. Moore, who is taking over the district, were travelling in the Lemanak, so ten picked men from force ‘B’ were sent to investigate around B. Lanjok, at the same time the District Officer, Meluan, was asked to co-operate from his side.” Mr. H. E. Catfield arrived at Simanggang on August 22nd to take over the Division, and Mr. Moore to take over Lubok Antu and Engkilili. A Dayak case of incest between a man and his adopted half-sister’s granddaughter was heard at Simanggang. The man and woman, who are both about the same age, admitted that they had com¬ mitted incest, but the case was adjourned to inquire what the proper fine is. Inquiries have been made from various Penghulus and Tunis, but they do not know what the correct fine should be although they all agree that this is a case of incest. The natives in most areas of the Simanggang District have taken advantage of the dry weather to burn off their farming land. Some excellent burns have been reported. Rubber Restriction Inspectors visited the Engkilili district, Undup, Lingga and Sebuyow and Ulu, during the month. No breaches of Rubber Restric¬ tion Orders or smuggling were reported. So far there have been no applications to re plant rubber. The drought continued throughout the month at Simanggang, very little rain having fallen. All rivers have been extremely low, and the atmosphere has been very hot and hazy, chiefly owing to the burning off of the farming land. Comparatively few Dayaks visited Belong during August, and most of them were busy clearing padi farms. The District Officer, Saribas, repons that owing to a complete breakdown of the outboard motor, his travelling programme was entirely disorganized. The proposed trip to the Ulu Layer mentioned in last month’s report had to be cancelled, and it was also found impossible to visit Pusa this month. The Officer-in-Charge, Kalaka, reports that on August 29th Dayaks from R. Pengarah Nyalu reported that an old woman had died suddenly. The Dresser was sent to investigate, and reported that the deceased's body was scalded over the abdomen and back; apparently her relations had tried to bring her round by applying hot stones to her body. The Dayaks were told to try less drastic methods in future. No action was taken as the deceased was presumed to have died of heart-failure previous to the application of the hot stones. An All Dayak football competition has been started at Saratok. and so far the matches have been well attended. The standard of play is not high, but provides amusement to the spectators. Third Division News. AUGUST. The District Officer, Sibu, states that Native Officer F. Ansin returned from a tour of Penghulu Imai's district on the 31st July. He visited all Dayak houses and completed a map showing the situation of all houses and the number of doors in each house. This is in accordance with a map¬ making scheme in progress throughout this district to obtain detailed information with regard to the situation and size of all Dayak houses. Mr. Ansin also visited Penghulu Ikan's district, leaving Sibu on the 21st and returning on the 26th. The Rubber Restriction Office has now been established in the building occupied by the Public Works Department, there being insufficient room in the main Administration offices. During the month there were eight prosecutions at Sibu for planting new rubber under Order No. R—3, and twenty-six prosecutions under Order No. R—1, in connection with offences committed by rubber dealers. Rubber exports for August were exceptionally heavy, in spite of a tapping holiday during part of month which will, of course, have a greater effect on September output. Fourteen piculs of rubber sheet were confiscated and bin ned by order of the Court. The following are the Sibu trade statistics for the month : The total land revenue for the Third Division for July amounted to $9,662.93 as compared with $11,062.29 for the corresponding month of the previous year. The collection for Sibu district for the month amounted to $3,769.95 shewing a decrease of approximately $880.00 as compared with the previous month, and approximately $3,650.00 com¬ pared with the corresponding month of the previous year. Seventy-five titles for 256 acres (approximate) were issued and forwarded to various stations, being 57 payable for 224 acres, and 18 free land titles for 32 acres. Twenty titles for 136 acres (approximate) were cancelled consisting of 19 pay¬ able titles for 132 acres and one free land title for 4 acres. The Assistant Superintendent of Lands left Sibu on the 6th to visit Binatang, Daro and Matu and returned on the 13th. A total of eighty-three patients were treated at Sibu hospital during the month. Sixty were dis- charged, and four deaths occurred in the hospital. The number of patients undergoing treatment , in the hospital is gradually declining. This, it is reported. is due to the poor state of the temporary hospital. Recently the heat in the wards during the day was very considerable. The death rate during the last few months is mounting, a number of patients being brought in "in extremis” and dying within 24 hours. It must also be borne in mind, however, that as the Chinese are now better off financially they prefer to try native medicines, and come to the hospital only when their finances are exhausted; by that time, of course, in most cases only a miracle can save them. Four hundred and fifty cases were treated in the out-patients department. Two hundred and twenty- four were new cases, and the remainder repetitions. Information was received from Sarikei that a mail bag for Binatang was stolen on the night of 6th. This case is still under investigation. The Sunshine Manila Revue, Malay Bangsawan, gave performances at the Yu Lok Theatre, Sibu, during the month. The District Officer, Lower Rejang, reports that there was no serious crime in his district during the month. As is usual at this time of the year, a few complaints of theft of pepper were reported, but the system of patrols from the garden police stations has reduced these offences to a minimum. On information received, one Bay Mah Tee, a Hokkien wharf-coolie, was arrested in Sarikei on August 22nd and charged with being concerned in the Song Treasury theft. When arrested he had over $700 in his possession. Apart from the usual descent of Dayaks on the Sarikei and Binatang bazaars at the start of the tapping holiday, very few Dayaks were seen during the month, being busy with their farms. A few of the usual farming-land disputes were reputed and satisfactorily s’ttled by the Native Officers. Rumah Girin, Sungei Sarikei, was destroyed by fire in the middle of a bcgawai. The conflagration was caused by firing a shot-gun through the leaf- attap roof at close range. The occupants were just sober enough to save themselves, but all property was lost. The sixty-year old wife of Tua Rumah Ukat caused the Penghulus some trouble by insisting on a divorce from her husband on the grounds that she is too old to take any further interest in married life, and sees no reason why she should spend her declining years cooking for her husband and his guests. As Ukat refuses to remain a Tua Rumah if his wife leaves him, there is a possibility that the house will break up and disperse. The pepper harvest at Sarikei and Binatang con¬ tinues, but the fruit is a poor colour owing to lack of good running water, while the gardeners attribute the smallness of the fruit to their inability to afford sufficient fertilizer at present, prices. The low price is very discouraging, as production from the non-diseased areas is better this year. The experimental vegetable garden at Sarikei yielded approximately one picul of vegetables for prison consumption. The Agricultural Inspector continued his inspec¬ tions of rubber and pepper gardens in the Sarikei An effort is being made to improve the quality of Dayak rubber by the issue of measures for the latex and strings to regulate the size of the finished sheets. Most Dayak sheets are so thick and heavy that it is impossible to smoke them properly. The following table gives the trade figures for Sarikei and Binatang for the month Exports and imports at the ports of Sarikei and Binatang were very heavy. The godowns at Binatang, indeed, are proving inadequate to accommodate the cargoes. The Officer-in-Charge, Matu and Daro, reports that Japanese fishing boats have been frequently sighted off Cape Sink. The lights of eighteen or twenty at a time have been observed at night from the lighthouse, but it is very difficult to say whether they are within the three-mile limit. Two Chinese launches on the Binatang-Matu run collided at Muara Payang on the evening of the 5th, m.l. Thai Ann being badly holed and ground¬ ing in shallow water just before she sank. The Juragans of both launches and the helmsman of one were charged under section 280 of the Penal Code, and two of the accused convicted and fined. A bag of mail consigned from Sarikei to Binatang was stolen from m.l. Hock Ann on the night of the 5th—6th and extensive police investigations failed tn discover any trace of the thief or thieves. Fortunately the bag contained only three un¬ important letters and a roll of duplicate vouchers. A Malay prahu paddling from Semah to Belawai on August 28th was struck by lightning during a violent storm. One of the occupants was killed instantly, two others were badly burnt and the remaining five suffered from shock. An inquiry was held by rhe Native Officer of Rejang. The Mee Ang Sawmill at Binatang, which re-opened a month or two ago, is showing signs of increased activity, and is producing planks for the local market. The empty land on the Nyelong side of Sarikei is now being opened up as a residential area. That the development is popular is shown by the eager¬ ness of the Chinese to acquire building sites, lots being taken up as soon as they are demarcated. All buildings will need the approval of the Govern¬ ment , and it is hoped that the present overcrowding in the bazaar will be relieved and that Sarikei as a town will be greatly improved. Bundan alias Jerani Manggai, a down-river Dayak, was sentenced to six months' imprisonment at Kapit for cheating by means of charms and spurious medicines. Penghulus Atan, Manok Manchal, Ugak, Ansi, Jagah, Grinang and Sibat visited Kapit during the month, in most cases to purchase barang for begawai. There have been an extraordinary number of these festivals this year due, no doubt, to excellent crops obtained last season. The mats paid by Punans for tax were auctioned at Kapit and brought fair prices, but they were few in number and not of good quality; this is due entirely to trading by Dayaks working jungle produce, and an effort is being made to remedy this. It may perhaps be worth mentioning as an exam¬ ple of Dayak character that a great many Dayaks now use tapping holidays as a means of calculating dates, and it is quite common to hear a Dayak date an incident by "Empai kena stop tangkal suba." On August 25th Penghulu Manok Manchal was caught holding a small tuba fishing in Sungei Kapit ulu for ngulit purposes; as I had spent a night in his house only a few days previously and lectured him on the subject, his offence is a glaring one and the case has not yet come up for trial pending consultation with the Resident. On August 12th N.O. Abang Ahmat returned from a four-day trip round ulu Chermin in connexion with outlaws affairs. An old outlaw langkau was discovered on top of one of the hills, but the Native Officer estimated its age as at least six months. Work has been commenced on the preparation of a demonstration vegetable plot behind the Court Writer’s house, Kapit, this is the only possible site but much work is necessitated in terracing the hill¬ side. This garden will be entirely separate from the prison garden on the edge of the river. On August 30th Mr. Spurway, Divisional Forest Officer, arrived with Mr. Gotte, a forest expert from the Bangkok branch of Messrs, the Borneo Company, Limited, preparatory to investigating the possibilities of commercially working the timber above Pelagus rapids in the Sungei Merit area. On August 7th a fire was discovered in an upstairs room in the old bazaar, Kapit. Fortunately it was discovered in time to prevent it spreading, and beyond some charred beams no serious damage was done. All attempts to trace the origin of the fire have failed. At Mukah. Tang Thiam Siu. a Chinese youth of uncertain occupation, was found guilty (under section 321 of the Penal Code) of assaulting a constable (No. G46 Nawi) at night in the bazaar, with a piece of wood, and was sentenced to one year’s rigorous imprisonment and nine strokes of the rattan. The price of sago remained comparatively low (55 cents) at Mukah in spite of a general rise to 70 cents in Dalat, and a maximum of 84 cents in Kuching. The reason given is that owing to the drought very little sago can be worked, which, one would think, should raise the price. The real reason, I am convinced, is that, the workers are all in debt and cannot or will not demand a fair price. Exports of raw sago from Mukah were :— The District Officer, Oya and Dalat, reports with regret that on August 19th Haji Abas bin Haji Ahmat died at Oya. He was for many years Tuan Imam of Oya mosque, and was well known and much respected throughout the district. For some years past Haji Abas had been in failing health, and he had lost his sight. The padi and sago godowns at Nanga Tamin, Ulu Oya, are in course of erection. Two Hokkien and two Foochow traders have been permitted to erect godowns. Both Hokkiens are in partnership and so are the Foochows. These two godowns are being erected on a previously selected site with a time limit of occupation of one year. It was decided to have two firms in residence at Nanga Tamin so as to avoid as far as possible any chance of undue profit being made, and to create a certain amount of competition. All four of these men have been trailing for many years in the Oya as bandong hawkers. The rumoured menace to sago palms by large numbers of bears from the Matu district was con¬ firmed, and permission has been granted to sell buckshot to local trustworthy Melanaus. It is hoped that this will help local people to protect their gardens, but it is unlikely that it will completely cope with the problem. The price of raw sago reached a new high level during the month, the price at Dalat being 70 cents per pasu and at the Kut 78 cents. The amount of raw sago exported from the district decreased during the month, the figures being :— This shows a total decrease of 15 koyans on the figures for last month. One motor schooner, one motor launch, six schooners and twenty-five bandongs cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 669 tons, a decrease on the figures for last month of 123 tons. Dalat Regatta. For the first time for ten years a Regatta was held at Dalat on His Highness the Tuan Muda’s birthday. August 8th. It was originally decided to hold the event as long ago as last February, since it was necessary to give as much time as possible for local people to build their boats, select crews, etc. Programmes were printed in English and Chinese. A certain number of Malay copies in Jawi were written by hand locally. Intense excitement prevailed in the Oya district for the two months preceding the Regatta, and inter-Kampong races were to be seen in progress on most evenings. As a result of this the form of most of the crews and boats was pretty well known by Regatta day. The weather, which had previously been unsettled, bucked up for the occasion, and there was no rain. Stands for the Judges, totalizator and spectators were erected by the flag-staff, and additional hawkers' stalls and food-stalls were in abundance. The crowds of people lining both banks of the river throughout the day were phenomenal. Racing started punctually at 8.30 a.m. and ran to programme. As most of the finishes were so close the judges did not have an enviable job. The tote proved very popular, and was most efficiently run hy the Hon. Treasurer, Mr. Jack Douglas, and Mr. Sim Cheng Chiew. It paid very good money, but not to me personally ! Awang Bunyok, N.O., the Hon. Secretary, did sterling work both before and during the Regatta, making himself responsible for a multitude of things which could not have been better done. As regards the more important races, the “31” of Kampong Ud in Class “A” was a popular win, Haji Omar’s boat giving them a close run. The Queen Mary was more or less expected to win Class "B”, although she is actually a bad boat, but the general opinion is that the Dalat paddlers are so good that they could paddle a log into first place. In Classes "A” and ”B” of the 15-men boats, the most outstanding were Laju Laju and Jempaka Welis. Tn both races the finish was a close one. The Champion Cup, 30-men race, was “terriffic,” there being no other word to describe it. The course is about three miles long, and Queen Mary won by j a bare two feet from Singa Kala,—truely a remark¬ able race. It was revealed afterwards that the steersman of Singa Kala fainted 200 yards from the winning post, otherwise the answer might have been different. In the Champion Cup, 15-men Class, there was also intense excitement and it is the general opinion of all who witnessed the race that Laju Laju of Oya thoroughly deserved her win. Barong races, of which there were two, caused amazement amongst the spectators, since bearing in mind their ungainly size and blunt bows they showed an amazing turn of speed. After the races the cups and cash prizes were presented to the winners in the Government Offices by Mr. C. D. Adams, Resident, Third Division. Visitors to Dalat for the occasion included Messrs. A. Macpherson, R. W. Hammond, G. Farrelley. R. W. Bormond and Dr. J. S. M. de Raaf of the Sarawak Oilfields, Limited. Not by any means the least surprising event of the Regatta took place when the Committee realized they had actually made a profit of some $30 odd, which will be carried forward for future use on similar occasions. It is hoped that events of this kind will again be organized in the Oya river, as amongst the Melanau people they are most popular, and very easy to run, with the help and encouragement which the Com¬ mittee can expect to receive from everybody. —(Contributed.) DALAT REGATTA. After the finish of the last race six ducks were released into the river. Any person who could out- swim the ducks and capture them could have them. All the ducks were eventually captured after much amusement. INTERVAL FOR LUNCH. A curry tiffin was held in the Government Offices for all officials of the Regatta by kind invitation of Mr Chua Hoi Tiaw and Mr. Sim Cheng Chiew. Fourth Division News. AUGUST. The competition between the Ranee’s and Grand Cinemas at Miri has begun. It is remarkable how much money natives and Chinese have to spend on this sort of entertainment, especially as many of the films are hardly likely to interest them. From their point of view it seems a pity that there are not more films of actual events, or some of the very interesting educational films to be seen in England. Two inquests at Miri were held during the month. In one, on the body of a Kedayan named Sidop, who was alleged to have been shot acciden¬ tally by a friend while hunting, an open verdict was returned, and the friend, by name Untong, was sentenced subsequently in the Resident’s Court to six months’ rigorous imprisonment for causing death by a rash act. In the other a verdict of suicide was returned. The new slaughter-house at Sungei Krokop, Miri, was completed during the month, but was not put in use. Satisfactory progress was made with the new kampong area at Sungei Merbau, and several applications were received for sites. Contracts were signed for new Clerks' Quarters and a gaol fence, but work had not begun at the end of the month. At Limbang, an alleged case of infanticide was investigated which proved to be unfounded. The rumour emanated from a gossiping stepmother, who was duly admonished. No arrests have yet been made in connection with the Limbang burglaries reported last month. Subsidized pepper planters at Panderuan pro¬ duced 40 bags for shipment to Kuching by the Maimuna on 17th. The Chinese School Committee at Limbang pro¬ pose to negotiate for a fresh site on which to erect a school building in place of the present converted shophouse in the bazaar. The former District Officer inspected some possible suitable sites, which are not easy to locale. Visitors to Limbang during the month included Mr. and Mrs. Davidson, Mr. and Mrs. Tolley, and infant, Messrs. Bewsher and Young, all of the Borneo Evangelical Mission, also Mr. Hughes- Hallett, M.C.S., Assistant Resident, Belait, Messrs. Perrott and Tilman of Messrs, the Asiatic Petroleum Company, Mr. and Mrs. Bomphrey and Messrs. Coghill and Giffening of Brunei. The District Officer, Bintulu, reports that Dayaks and Malays have completed their burning and in most cases obtained fairly clean burns. At the moment, though, the whole district is overrun with wild pigs; it would appear that these pests are going to do a great deal of harm to the young padi in the near future. At Bintulu work was commenced on the new conservancy scheme: a back lane has been cut in the down-river block of the bazaar, and shop- owners have commenced the construction of their latrines. 8ix latrines for the up-river block were completed by contract. The middle block is proving more difficult, as the houses are in a bad state and all of different length. A scheme has been drawn up to deal with them. Mr. C. E. L. Blagg, Registrar of the supreme Court, visited Bintulu from August 27th to 29th, in connection with the affairs of the Sarawak Timber and Trading Co., Ltd., which Company is in liquidation. On the night of August 26th a strong fresh from the ulu broke up several of the Sarawak Timber and Trading Company’s log rafts at Pandan; about •200 logs broke loose and floated up and down the river. Special coolies had to be called out to collect these logs where possible, and it is not yet known how many of them are missing. The District Officer, Baram. states that the shortage of rice in his district becomes more serious every day, and Government help is being sought on all sides. Approximately two thousand dollars of the sum set aside for relief has been spent, and it is known that the majority of people requiring assistance have not yet come down. Everyone is holding out until the new crop is safely planted. It is expected that as many as fifty villages will apply for relief, and when it is realised that the majority of these are long houses of about fifty doors, some of a hundred, it will be understood that it is no easy matter for the chiefs to provide food, as is expected of them, and that it is almost certain the original vote for relief will be insufficient. In some cases, in certain houses in the Tinjar for instance, other crops planted may help them to last until the harvest, but in almost all other villages, especially in the Baram and Tutoh rivers, one and every crop has failed. The wandering Penans have taken the precaution of finishing all the wild sago in the neighbourhood of the main river villages, so that driven to this last resource, the Kenyahs and Kayane have to travel for two and three days before they can find sufficient to eat. The adult ran subsist on a varied diet of unusual items and go hungry for days without much ill effect. It is the children who suffer, and the natives themselves say that several have already died through under-nourishment. One bad harvest now and then does not much matter; it is when two and three follow one another that things become serious. The Dayaks, on the whole, and the Kelabits have had a sufficient harvest. The latter, in so far as they are able, are assisting their less for¬ tunate neighbours, but they live far in the interior and it is a wearisome business carrying rice over the hills. Below are extracts from a report by Mr. D. Q. Hudden. Acting District Officer, Baram, on a visit to the Kelabit country :— "I left Marudi for the Kelabit country on the 25th May. and returned on the 28th August. This would appear to be a long time, but when one considers the distance travelled and the places visited, it is not excessive. In addition, one must remember that these people had not been visited for several years, so that they were due for a longer visit than usual. “There are four ways of approaching this country, and die visits in the past have generally been done in two journeys. With only one European in the district it is perhaps better to do it this way, as it does not necessitate leaving Marudi for so long. "Since Mohamad Zin Galau, Native Officer, was unable to go I was accompanied by Probationary Native Officer Wan Ali and Peng- hulu Tama Tingang Malang. The latter was invaluable, and I cannot stress too much his courtesy and skill in dealing with every occasion, expected or unforeseen. We started by way of the Apoh and Melanah and then crossed the watershed to Long Mutan on the upper Tutoh. Here there is a rest hut, and Kelabit boats were waiting for our use. We travelled down the Tutoh and up to the Saridan, where the first Kalabit houses are situated. On the way up we met Mr F. H. Buxton, Assistant Forest Officer, returning to his survey work in the Tutoh after revictualling his party in the nearest village. Most of the Saridan Kelabits have moved over the boundary from time to time, and the remnant is only some fifty or sixty doors. From the Saridan we started to climb on to the Boyu range which stretches almost as far as Batu Lawi and Bukit Murud. The path leads along the top of this range, the boundary between the Baratu and Limbang districts, and one can see for miles on either side. Several nights, when camping, we descended a short distance to find water on the Limbang side. Pigs were very plentiful, and also leeches, a result, perhaps, of the continual rain which we were experiencing at that time. Eventually we descended to the head¬ waters of the Magoh, crossed this stream some ten or a dozen times, and then climbed the range between the Magoh and the Keba’an. There are four villages in the Keba’an valley amongst which may be included the small house on the Englah river. The main Kelabit population resides in the upper reaches of the Baram and Lebun rivers. The soil is very fertile and they invariably have exceptionally good harvest. Sickness in this area is appalling, and with a travelling medicine chest one can do little to alleviate it. Several epidemics are said to have occurred during recent years, and the numbers of the inhabitants have decreased considerably. I am convinced that with proper medical attention the large death rate amongst these people and amongst the other upriver tribes can be materially reduced. The addition of even one dresser would be of help, since one could then spend his time travelling and one remain in charge of the hospital. I believe that formerly there were two dressers in this district. “At Lemudu, the house of the late penghulu .Tama Abu Tingang, a gathering of headmen was called to decide on the most suitable person to take his place. Without a dissentient voice it was agreed that Tabaran Ribu, the late chief's son, was the only person acceptable to them, and indeed since his father's death he had acted as their unofficial chief. We were requested to inform His Highness the Rajah, through the Resident, Fourth Division, and to ask that Tabaran Ribu be created Penghulu in his father’s place. At Lio Matu several members of the party succumbed to fever and on Mohamad Zin Galan's arrival it was arranged that most of those originally accompanying me had better return home from Long Akah. This was done, and Wan Ali with Tama Tingang Malang returned whilst we proceeded up the Akah to the Kayans and Kelabits there, and to the one Kelabit village in the headwaters of the Tutoh, only two hours from the Akah valley. We returned to Marudi via the Selungau, the Pata and the Apoh.' One inquest was held during the month at Taiwas on the body of a Tagal of Ulu Merapok who died of tuba poisoning. A verdict, of suicide was returned. There was once again, as usual, an almost com¬ plete absence of crime in the Lawas district. Very few Muruts appeared in Lawas during the month, but a large crowd assembled at Trusan to have several old outstanding cases settled during the Officer-in-Charge’s monthly visit there. These cases were mostly land and inheritance disputes, and were all cleared up. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 28,683 lbs. of dry rubber during the month.   