THE Sarawak Gazette. PRICE KUCHING, Tuesday, September 1st, 1936. 20 CENTS. The Sarawak Gazette. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1st, 1936. Local and personal. AUGUST We offer our heartiest congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Harry Roy on the birth of a daughter. The happy event took place in London on August 15th. From all accounts Dayang Elizabeth (Mrs. Harry Roy) has scored a notable personal success in the. film Every thing is Rhythm which opened recently in London, and which features Mr. Harry Roy and his celebrated dance band. We hope that we shall soon have an opportunity of seeing this picture at the Sylvia Cinema. Mr. A. W. D. Brooke is expected to arrive in Kuching on September 7th It is under¬ stood that Mr. Brooke is to be stationed at Nanga Meluan. Mr. Brooke is to be congratulated on having recently parted the Third (Proficiency) Standard of the F.M.S. Government Malay examination. This examination is not com pulsory for officers of the Malayan Civil Service who take Malay as a first language, and special sanction has to be obtained to study for it. Mr. H. B. Crocker returned from leave on August 3rd, and Mr. W. F. Dick, who acted as Government Secretary during his absence, has resumed the duties of Resident. First Division. Mr. F. H. Pollard has been appointed Secretary for Native Affairs, and Mr. G. F. .1. Pegler continues to act as District Officer, Kuching. It is with deep regret that we announce the death of the Rev. Father Vincent Halder which occurred in Singapore on August 16th. An obituary notice appears in another ' column. We welcome back Dr. W. Hutchison and Mr. F. A. Moore, who returned from furlough on August 17th. Mr. Moore came in for a little excitement at Gibraltar since a bomb was dropped quite close to the Chitral, the vessel in which he was travelling, and he saw some rather sensational manoeuvres on the part of a flotilla of Spanish destroyers Mr. Moore, who will relieve Mr. G. R. H. Arundell as District Officer, Lubok Antu, when the latter goes on home leave towards the end of next month, left for Simanggang by the Maimnna on August 21st, having first paid a flying visit to Sibul. During its stay in Kuching the circus, which we mentioned last month, drew large crowds every night. The circus troupe worked hard and gave excellent perfor¬ mances, some of the turns being strikingly good. They thoroughly deserved their success, which we hope will be, repeated else¬ where. The proprietors are to be congratulated on a courageous enterprise. The sixty first birthday of the Sarawak Gazette passed off quietly on August 26th. Reports from the coast state that the sago plantations between Matu and the Igan are suffering from a plague of bears. These creatures even swim the Igan river and create havoc in the gardens on the Dalat side. The owners of sago gardens are being permitted to buy buckshot, but it is doubted whether they will be able to do very much to combat the menace. In the meantime children in the neighbourhood of the Igan would be well advised to refrain from ill-timed pleasantries about the hairlessness of their elders’ pates. Mr. E. 0. Bruce arrived in Kuching on August 10th, having travelled out from Europe to Singapore by air, and left for Limbang on August 13th. Visitors to Kuching during the month included Mr. J. B. Archer, Resident, Fourth Division, Mr. H. E. Cutfield, and Dr. A. D. Hutchison. Mr. Archer and Mr. Cutfield arrived by the Maimuna on August 20th, and Dr. Hutchison, who is at present on local leave, arrived from Sibu on August 7th and left for Singapore on the 24th. Mr. Archer, who was in Kuching on duty, returned to Miri on the 26th by the Maimuna, which had previously taken Mr. Cutfield to Simanggang. Mr. Cutfield is to act as Resident, Second Division, during Mr. P. M. Adams’ absence on furlough. Mr. A. Macpherson was appointed Acting District Officer, Nanga Meluan. on August 19th, and left for his new station on the same dav. The bort at Meluan, which is constructed of solid belian on a concrete base, should be completed early in September, but owing to difficulties of transport all furniture has to he made on the spot, so the Fort will not be readv for permanent occupation until the middle of October. Dr. E. M. Marjoribanks, Principal Medi¬ cal Officer, left Kuching on furlough by the Marudu on August 29th. Dr. W. Hutchison has been appointed to act as Principal Medi- cal Officer during Dr. Marjoribanks’ absence. Mr. Rudolf Gotte, an expert on forestry and timber from the Bangkok branch of Messrs, the Borneo Company Ltd., arrived in Kuching by the Marudu on August 12th. He left for Sibu on August 24th, accompanied by Mr. B. J. C. Spurway, Divisional Forest Officer, Third Division, and we understand that he intends to visit certain timber-bearing areas in the interior of the Third Division. We welcome back Mrs. N. A. Middlemas, who arrived in Kuching on August 24th. after leaving Miss Jill Middlemas at school at Cameron’s Highlands. Obituary. It is with the deepest regret that we have to record the death of the Bev. Father Vincent Halder which took place in the General Hospital, Singapore, on Sunday, August 16th. Father Halder had been in failing health for nearly a year. In August, 1935, he developed symptoms of a malignant disease of the throat which necessitated a visit to Singapore for special treatment. After spending some months in Singa¬ pore Hospital, he returned to Sibu apparently in good health, and certainly in excellent spirits. It was known, though, that the malady from which he was suffering was incurable, and towards the end of May he left Sibu for the last time. While in Singapore he stayed at the Procure of the Missions Etrangères, receiving treatment nt the General Hospital. The French Fathers state that until August 9th he lived his ordinary life, smoking his celebrated pipe 'all day long,’ and eating with Ilia customary appetite. On the 9th, however, he was taken suddenly ill; he was admitted to hospital the following morning, and it was soon apparent that he had only a few days to live. It is good to know that during these last few days he was comparatively free from pain, as far as can he ascertained,—indeed, shortly before his end he is said to have felt so much better that he refused to believe that he was in any danger. When two Fathers from the French Mission went to see him the day before he died, he told them that he was considerably improved; in proof of this it is interest¬ ing to note that the Fathers were asked by the Hospital authorities to cut short their visit, since in spite of doctors' orders Father Halder (charac¬ teristically !) would not stop talking, and it was feared that this might be too great a strain for hi i in his enfeebled condition. At 4 p.m. on August 16th two Fathers arrived at the Hospital just in time to be present at the end. Father Halder, who had received Extreme Unction a day or two previously, was quite calm, and although incapable of speech, he was conscious and certainly understood the prayers of the two priests. He passed away peace¬ fully at 4.15 p.m., and his body was taken to the Church of St. Peter and St. Paul, where it lay in state until the following morning, being watched over by several Chinese Catholics during the night. Early on Monday morning Mass was sung, and at 5 p.m. on the same day Vespers for the Dead were held, the Bishop of Malacca presiding. All the Roman Catholic clergy of Singapore, including French, Belgian and Portuguese priests to the number of over twenty were present, with several Brothers and a congregation of three or four hundred people. This assemblage was a fitting tribute to the memory of one who throughout his whole life was concerned not with any one race or group of races, but with humanity, and who even in Singapore, where he was not widely known, was loved and respected. During his few months in Singapore he left the imprint of his unique and charming personality on all with whom he came in contact, and in a letter to the Prefect Apostolic of Sarawak the Procurator of the French Mission states that “All priests here regret the death of Father Halder, he was so good and so simple, never complaining, al ways satisfied.” When the news of Father Halder's death reached Sibu, the Mission was thronged during most of the day with people of all races, who came to express their sympathy. Father Halder's body was sent from Singapore to Sibu by s.s. Katong, and he was buried there on August 25th. It is fitting that Father Halder lies not in a strange land, but in the one place of all others that he himself would have chosen,—the place which for so many years was the centre of his work for the Mission and for Sarawak, and with which his name will always be associated. A full account of the funeral will be found under Third Division News. Father Halder, or ‘Apai’ as he was always known, was born near Innsbruck in the Tyrol in 1878. He was ordained Priest in 1902, and arrived in Sarawak in February, 1903, going almost at once to Kanowit, where he was stationed for the next three years. In 1906 he was transferred to Sibu where, apart from furlough and a short interval in Jesselton, he remained until his departure for Singapore this year. Almost the whole of his thirty-three years’ service in Sarawak was therefore spent in the Rejang River area, and it is there more than anywhere else that his memory will live in the hearts of his friends and in the fruits of his labour. At the start of his career as a missionary Father Halder’s work lay among the Sea Dayaks, and although after his transfer to Sibu he was chiefly concerned with the Chinese in general and Foo- chows in particular, he never lost his love for the Dayaks, and retained always a lively interest in them and their doings. But Father Halder's benevolence was not confined to those among whom he spread his Message; his warm heart knew no barrier of race, colour or creed, and his abounding sympathy embraced all humanity. Affliction and distress were the only credentials he recognized, and no one in trouble ever went to him in vain, or failed to draw new strength and gladness from the over- flowing well of his understanding and compassion. He went about among his fellow men a perpetual fount of happiness and encouragement, doing good by stealth, and bringing out the best in everyone by the mere fact of his presence. With his battered terai, his vast beard, his pipe, and his infectious laughter ‘Apai’ was a familiar figure up and down the Rejang River, where he will be missed so long as there remains a single person who remembers him. It was impossible not to love him.—his absolute simplicity and what can only be described as the saintliness of his life were combined with a delightful sense of fun; his eyes were rarely without a twinkle, and a smile was never far from his lips. To the end he never lost his wonder and delight in the ordinary business of living, and his high spirits and enthusiasm were very refreshing in a world where pessimism is becoming more and more prevalent as the years go on. Tn Father Halder the Mission has lost a devoted servant, and Sarawak a true friend. Let it be our consolation that although men such as he pass from among us, they do not die: they live on in our hearts, where their memory remains forever fresh and fragrant, and where their example of sacrifice, love and selfless generosity endure as a constant reminder that their lives on earth were not wasted. The Next War. Actuaries, it seems, are not the only people who can gauge our expectation of life through the medium of cold, hard figures, says The Ukapian. This artless Little computation, now going the rounds, has convinced many outside the insurance world that Great Britain’s next war is going to lake place—horrible thought—in a year’s time  Sarawak Rubber Estates, Limited. Report of the proceedings at the Twenty-fourth Annual Ordinary General Meeting held at the Office of the Company, 143-149, Fenchurch Street, London, E.C. 3, on 17th July, 1936, Mr. John Kenneth Henderson (the Chairman of the Com¬ pany) presiding. Mr. G. A. Wigney, f.o.l.s., the Representative of the Secretaries (The Borneo Company, Limited), having read the notice convening the meeting and the Report of the Auditors, the Chairman said : The Directors’ Report and Accounts having been in your hands for the prescribed period, I will with your permission take these as read. The result of the year’s operations, after pro¬ viding £1,000 for depreciation, is a profit of £3.955. 18s. 9d., against £5,606. 6s. 7d. for last year. This smaller profit is mainly accounted for bv the reduced crop, and the system of tapping which we have been compelled to adopt. It has also been affected to a small extent by an increase in labour costs. I shall have something to say on both these matters later. Including the carry forward from last year of £2.111. 10s. 9d . the amount at credit of Profit and Loss Accounts is £6,067. 9s. 6d. Out of this sum your Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of 4 per cent., less fax, which will absorb £3,660, and the transfer of £130. 8s. 11d., to Reserve for Contingencies, increasing this to £1,000. out of which approximately £700 in respect of Income Tax will have to be paid. Referring to the Balance Sheet you will observe that there is an addition to Estate Property Account of £452. 9s. 8d. representing the cost of additional tanks in the factory, and of another smokehouse. As you were informed in the report, the area of the Estate has been reduced by 678 acres, which represented Reserve Laud entirely unsuited to rubber planting. Hitherto we had held this land rent free, but under the terms of our lease we were due to pay quit rent on it as from 1st January, 1936, and your Directors therefore decided to surrender the land to the Government. As the result of a recent survey made by the Authorities, the planted area has been given as 2,674 acres. The rubber crop harvested during the year amounted to 636,073 lbs., a decrease of 62.909 lbs., on the previous year. The imposition of tapping holidays by the Government amounting to 65 days during the year fully accounts for the smaller production. Costs were thereby consider- ably increased as we had to maintain our labour force during the periods when no crop was being harvested. Although, as I intimated to you last year, the Government have set up an Assessment Committee, they have not yet granted assessments to indivi¬ dual Estates, but continue to impose tapping holidays, as a means of limiting the total exports of rubber to the volume allowed the territory under the Restriction Scheme. During the first nine months of the current financial year, five periods have so far been fixed totalling 99 days in all, which must add to our costs for this year. With a view to minimising the effect of this policy the Labour Force is being employed on cultivation work during these periods, but it can readily be realised how difficult it is to work on an economic basis under these conditions. We are also pro- ihibited from exporting any grades of scrap rubber, and this will have its effect on our Estate working results. We have, in all circumstances, reluctantly decided to abandon our self-imposed restriction by way of rotational tapping in favour of full fapping between the holiday periods. It is this change in system which has necessitated the expenditure on additional coagulating tanks and smokehouse accommodation already referred to. Care is being taken to ensure that the con¬ sumption of bark shall be approximately the same as hitherto. The Estate, which was recently inspected by our Visiting Agent has been well reported on, as being in a generally healthy condition. The drainage system has been maintained and an efficient programme of cultivation carried out, both of which have contributed greatly to the good order obtaining on the property. The Directors are well satisfied with the performance of the new factory. The Board have in view the question of improve¬ ment and/or replanting of some of the older areas, and to this end experiments in chemical manuring of selected areas are now taking place, while nurseries arc being set up for the supply of proved seedlings and steps are being taken to obtain supplies of budwood from selected clones. Our labour force has been kept together at com¬ paratively small cost under difficult conditions, and is at present just sufficient to meet our requirements. We have reason to know that other estates have suffered badly, and great credit is due to our Manager, Mr. MacDonald for the good position in which we find ourselves. The Government, however, still persist in their prohibition on the importation of fresh labour, and while our force as a whole is at present contented, the local demand for labour and the rates of pay being offered are such that the loyalty of our coolies is being severely taxed. We may, therefore, before long be faced with the alternative of further considerable increases in pay or the loss of numbers of our labourers. However, I do not wish to end on a pessimistic note, and subject to no further difficulties arising during the present financial period, your Directors believe the Company should have a reasonably successful year if present prices are maintained. In conclusion I am sure you will agree that our best thanks are due to the staff on the Estate for the efficient manner in which the work has been conducted during the year as well as to our Agents at home and in the East for their constant care and attention at all times. I will now propose:- That the Report and Accounts as submitted be approved and adopted, and I will ask Colonel Harvey to second the resolution. After that I shall be pleased to deal with any questions you may care to ask. There being no questions, the Chairman put the motion to the meeting, and it was carried unanimously. The Chairman moved:—That a dividend be declared for the year ended 31st March, 1936, of 4 per cent., less tax at 4s. 9d. in the £, payable on the 1st August, 1936, to Shareholders on the register on 7th July, 1936. This was seconded by Mr. Malcolm and carried unanimously. The Chairman then proposed and Colonel Harvey seconded the re-election of Mr. A. R. Malcolm as a Director and this was carried unanimously. On the proposal of Mr. T. Edwards, seconded by Mr. D. T. Lewis, Messrs. Turquand, Youngs & Co., were re-appointed Auditors at a remunera¬ tion of 40 guineas. Mr. Lewis proposed a hearty vote of thanks to the Directors which was carried unanimously. The proceedings then terminated. Notice to Holders of Roumanian Loans. By Article 3 (1) of the Anglo,Roumanian Pay¬ ments Agreement of 2nd May, 1936 (Cmd. 5174) it is provided that amounts allocated under the Agreement to the Service of the Public Debt of Roumania and of the Monopolies Institute 7 per cent. Guaranteed Sterling Bonds are to bo used for payments in respect of Securities which are shown to the satisfaction of H.M. Government to have been on 4th May. 1936, in the ownership of British Holders as defined in that Article. The Treasury have authorized the Paying Agents of each of the loans concerned to overstamp bonds which were in the ownership of British holders on 4th May, 1936, and have requested the Paying Agents to issue the following notice to Bondholders : NOTICE. Nonce is hereby given that the Paying Agents of bonds of the undermentioned Loans have been requested and authorized by H.M. Treasury to undertake the overstamping of those Bonds which were on 4th May, 1936, in the ownership of a "British Holder” as defined below : (1) Persons of whatever nationality ordinarily resident or ordinarily carrying on business in the United Kingdom; or (2) British subjects wherever resident and cor¬ porations incorporated by or under the laws of the United Kingdom, or of any other territory under the Sovereignty of His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, or under His Majesty’s suzerainty, protection or mandate, and Governments and public authorities in those territories; or (3) Persons under His Majesty’s protection and ordinarily resident or ordinarily carrying on business in the United Kingdom or any other of the territories aforesaid. Accordingly, British holders of the under¬ mentioned Bonds should lodge their Bonds for over stamping with the respective Paying Agents, together with Certificates of British Ownership as defined above, signed by a British Banker or Stock¬ broker. Listing forms can be obtained from the Paying Agents. Delay in presenting bonds for overstampping may entail delay in receiving payment of the coupons thereon if and when funds for such payment are available. A Note On Food. 11. Last month I hud some rather hard things to say about English cooking. In general they were deserved, but there is, of course, one branch of cookery in which we excel,—the cooking of meat. When it comes to chops, steaks and joints, the English stand supreme; they are the high priests of the oven and the gridiron, the acknowledged past- masters of the basting ladle and the spit. Unfortunately, though, this great gift is of little practical value in Sarawak, since in the outstations —and it is with outstations that this article is chiefly concerned—meat is just the one thing that is usually unobtainable. Apart from the larger centres where one can get cold storage products (and where in consequence there is no excuse at all for inferior meals), English cookery is to all intents and pur¬ poses a wash-out in Sarawak, and the sooner we realize this fact, the better for our stomachs and tempers. Instead of sighing vainly for fillet steak and saddle of million, we should pul nil thoughts of Simpson's, the Cheshire Cheese and the George and Vulture resolutely behind us and see that what can be done with the materials that are ready to our hand. These, in the main, are eggs, fish, shellfish, poultry and certain kinds of vegetables. Game is also obtainable in the shape of snipe, pigeons of various kinds and deer, but it cannot be depended upon and so must be regarded as something of a luxury. For those who like it. Chinese-bred pork is usually to be had wherever there is a bazaar; Dayak pork is generally (and rightly) regarded as dangerous,—it is certainly unpalatable, and so need not be considered here. The same applies to wild pig- This is not really such a bad list, taken all round. It is one which many housewives would consider more than adequate,—but not in England, j Throughout middle-class England meat is still the staple food of the family, the pièce de rèsistance of every meal. Eggs and fish are regarded as kick¬ shaws which only serve to whet the appetite for the main course, of which vegetables are merely the unconsidered accessories. The gastronomic life of the ordinary English family centres with an almost religious fervour round the weekly joint,—hot on Sunday, cold on Monday, as the Co-optimists used to sing, and disguised in various forms for the rest of the week. The Sunday joint is not just, a chunk of red meat and bone,—it is far, far more than that; it is a cult, a portent, a symbol. It is the incarna- tion of the spirit of bourgeois Britain, and as such it exercises a baleful dominon over a large section of the population of the British Isles. Unfortunately its influence reaches beyond the seas, and it is this blind joint-worship that condemns the Englishman abroad to the kind of meals that he has to eat; the kind of meals, we might add, that no one but he would eat. On the Continent, though, things are different. In France and Southern Europe butcher’s meat is usually expensive and bad. The inhabitants of these benighted regions therefore do without it to a great extent, and specialize in the cooking of eggs, fish, shellfish, poultry and vegetables, with game as a side-line. And believe me, they do not do so badly, either; in the course of the past few centuries the frogs, wops and dagoes have evolved a highly individual code of cookery which at its worst guarantees that no meal shall ever be insipid, and which at its best produces dishes of great variety and surpassing excellence. You get the idea? Briefly, it is that if we wish to live like civilised human beings in Sarawak we should forget all our inherited ideas on the subject of food, and abandon for ever the attempt to apply the British cookery convention in a country where it is entirely unwork¬ able owing to me lack of first essentials. We should adopt instead the Continental method, which is exactly suited to local conditions; we should free ourselves from the tyranny of the joint, and burst the shackles of custom and tradition. If we take this line, there is no reason at all why we should not live very nearly as well in Sarawak as they do ou the Continent. Those of my readers who have lived abroad may think that this is an exaggeration, but it is not; it is really astonishing what one can do with the materials available in the average outstation, given the will, and perhaps the skill. But it is the will that matters; that little touch of elbow grease is nine tenths of the battle A few minutes each day devoted to the kitchen will produce results that are altogether incommensurate with the time and effort expended. III. Before going any farther, it might perhaps bo as well to state quite definitely that this article does not pretend to be a sort of condensed cookery book; there are plenty of these on the market, and they contain hundreds of good recipes. All that I am modestly trying to do is to establish general principles, to prove that food need not necessarily be uninteresting in the tropics, and to show you the way to brighter and better meals. Perhaps the best way to do this is to come down to brass tacks and produce a few examples. Eggs, fish, shellfish, poultry and vegetables,— that is our list Let us take these things one by one and see what can be done with them. In Sarawak, eggs are usually prepared in only four ways,—boiled, poached, scrambled or fried. It is not easy to go wrong with the first three, but how often does one get an egg that has been pro¬ perly fried,—an egg, that is, with the edges of the while crisp and brown, and the yolk still liquid? Almost never. Yet it is so easy; all one has to do is to ensure that the fat in which the egg is cooked is hot enough. Yes, ladies, it is as simple as all that. Again, eggs as a rule are only served for break¬ fast. But there is no reason at all why they should not form one of the courses, or even the chief course, at luncheon or dinner. For instance, many savoury entries can be evolved if various ingredients are added to scrambled eggs as they are being whisked in the pan; chopped up mush¬ rooms or pimentos, cubes of bacon, peas, sauté potatoes, grated cheese, minced chicken's liver and minced ham are some suggestions.—it is easy enough to think of others. Scrambled eggs served in this way and garnished with slices of toast crisply fried in butler make an excellent light luncheon dish, and form an effective substitute for fish at dinner. A rather more substantial dish can be made from eggs done in the Spanish fashion. These are simply fried eggs—but properly fried, please,— dished up on top of a heap of rice fried with a little saffron and garnished with small sausages, fried bananas, and pimentos. (Since pimentos come into this article a good deal, one way and another, I had better take this opportunity of saying that they can be grown locally without difficulty, and that seeds can be obtained from the Department of Agriculture). But the king of all egg dishes, of courses, is the omelette. So much has been written about the cooking of omelettes that it would only be a waste of time to go into details here. It is enough to say that the true omelette consists of beaten up egg mixed with a little butter and a pinch of salt and cooked in butter. The result should be golden in colour, firm on the outside and semi- liquid within : it should not be the kind of foamy abomination that only too often masquerades as an omelette in Sarawak. Omelettes are delicious plain, but they are also excellent when filled with the ingredients 1 have suggested in connection with scrambled eggs. There is, however, one variety of omelette—the Spanish—that deserves special mention, since it is not only unusual and easy to make, but a meal in itself. Here are the directions :— Proceed as for a French omelette, but to the beaten up egg add small cubes of boiled potato, a few chunks of tomato, sliced pimentos, some peas, a pinch of salt and a liberal dash of paprika. Cook in the ordinary way. but do not try to fold,— just turn it over quickly and let it retain the shape of the pan. The result should be a delicious mass of eggs, vegetables and spices round in shape and about an inch thick. It is, I hope, unnecessary to add that omelettes of any kind should be served the moment they are ready; the slightest delay is fatal. Well, that is enough about eggs. It would be possible to discourse for hours about the subtleties of cefs bonne femme (eggs baked with mushrooms and butter) and cefs à la crème (eggs lightly baked with spices and thick cream) but time does not permit, and, as I have said, there are plenty of cookery books in the world. Let us proceed to the next item on our list. With the possible exception of duai and ikan merah the fish caught round the Sarawak coasts are apt to be rather tasteless unless eaten fresh from the sea. which is not always possible. They should therefore be served with a rather strongly- flavoured sauce,—and when I say sauce, I do not mean a pungent liquid out of a bottle but a real sauce prepared in the kitchen. These are endless in variety, and the basis of most of them is butler melted in a pan, thickened with a little flour, and then moistened with milk, wine or stock and possibly thickened again with yolk of egg just before serving. When making sauces from tinned vegetables—mushrooms, for instance,—they should be cooked for only about half the time stated in the recipe, and the liquor from the tin should be mixed with the stock used for the body of the sauce. Bouillon cubes make a very good substitute for stock, incidentally. Good accompaniments for local fish are tomato or cheese sauce (don't stint the cheese.) mushroom sauce, (add a glass of port wine if you arc feeling extravagant,) lemon sauce (ordinary white sauce plus the juice of two limes, butter and cream.) and of course, curry sauce; and sauce tartare makes all the difference to fried fish. This is merely a stiff mayonnaise mixed with finely-chopped capers, and since it has a distinctive and delicious flavour it is invaluable as a garnish not only for fish but for cold vegetables, and sometimes also for meat. Reinember, though, that mayonnaise consists of yolk of egg, olive oil and vinegar, and nothing else, —unless you care for garlic, that is. People who add milk or cream to this exquisite preparation are guilty of a serious crime and one which would meet with swift and drastic punishment in any properly organised society. Never serve boiled fish with white sauce. One has nightmare memories of watery lumps of senangin weltering in bill-sticker's paste on which it is perhaps as well not to dilate. Anchovies are a good dressing for fish that is steamed or boiled,— if you must eat fish done in this way. Fish salads are easily prepared and make an appetising first course. Cut some cold cooked fish into small cubes, mix with boiled potato and beet¬ root also cut in cubes, add onion to taste, a little pimento, salt and coarse white pepper, and dress with oil and vinegar whisked into a fairly stiff emulsion. See that there is plenty of dressing, and mix it thoroughly with the salad. Most kinds of Sarawak sea fish, though somewhat kicking in flavour, have firm white flesh and are therefore well suited for stewing since the flesh does not disintegrate during the process of cooking. Fish stews are very good if intelligently flavoured, and if you want to go a bust there is always matelote, that glory of French cooking which consists of white fish cut in chunks and stewed in red wine with onions, mushrooms, and spices. And let us not forget bouillabaisse, that delicate but satisfying dish that is both a soup and a stew; I have eaten bouillabaisse in Sarawak which would pass muster in Marseilles, and that is saying a lot. The in¬ gredients are fish, prawns or sea-crayfish, mussels (use the local cockle called krang,— it is excellent,) potatoes, spices, and saffron, with a touch of curry powder. Mention of prawns brings us to shellfish, a valuable article of food in Sarawak which can often be obtained in places where one cannot get fish. And yet how little is done with them ! They usually appear on the table either cold and liberally dowsed with furniture-cream, or else fried until they have lost all their flavour. Yet they can be prepared in all lands of different ways, and offer splendid opportunities for imaginative cookery. The udang gala, or large sea crayfish, is very nearly as good as the langouste. which the French rate, higher than the lobster. This crayfish is first- class boiled and served cold with mayonnaise, and it can lake the place of lobster in all recipes dealing with that delectable crustacean. It is superb, for instance, cooked à Vamericaine, and this dish is not nearly so difficult as most people think. Sea prawns (udang sia) have more flavour than their fresh-water cousins, but both varieties make an excellent bisque, or thick soup. The recipe can j be found in almost any cookery book, but it is im- portant to remember that a lot of the flavour of prawns lies in their shells, which should not be removed until just before the soup is served. A good stock for bisque of prawns can be made from fish heads and bones to which have been added a number of prawn or crayfish shells pounded up in a mortar. One of the best ways to eat sea prawns, provided they are freshly caught, is to boil them in saltwater to which a little vinegar has been added and then deal with them while they are still hot. When cooked in this way prawns retain all their flavour; stout and brown bread and hotter arc the traditional accompaniments Crabs are first-class in Sarawak, and can be pre¬ pared in a number of ways. If they can be obtained with ‘coral,’ so much the better,—pound this up and use it to dress them, if served cold. The meat from the shell should be shredded, mixed with the pounded coral and some mayonnaise and flanked with the claws; the whole should be garnished with lettuce and cucumber and put on the icc for an hour or so before serving. Crabs also make a good soup on the lines of a prawn bisque, and they can be baked in their shells with butter and bread-crumbs. The local clam (locan) is rather tough, but is use¬ ful for flavouring soups and fish stews. Krang, which resemble little cockles, make delicious makan kechil,—they should be plunged in boiling water for only a few seconds and eaten at once. No remarks on Sarawak fish would be complete without some mention of umai, the national dish of Melanau fishermen. To prepare umai take a good- sized duai, clean it, scale it. wash it in salt water, and cut it in thin slices. Lay these on a board and spinkle with asam paya and the juice of fresh limes. Leave for half an hour or so then place in a shallow dish with some vinegar and a few sliced chillies. You will find this an excellent hors d’oeuvres. Umai can be made with any white fish, provided it is absolutely fresh, but connoisseurs prefer duai. To taste umai at its best one should eat it in a barong fifteen miles out to sea. (to be continued.) The British North Borneo (Chartered) Company. We. print below extracts from the speech made by Major-General Sir Neill Malcolm, K.C.B., D.S.O., who was in the chair at the Ninety-ninth General Meeting of Share¬ holders of the British North Borneo Company held at River Plate House, Finsbury Circus, London, E.C. 2, on June 16th, 1936. These extracts are taken from the full text of the speech published in the British North Borneo Herald. “THE CHAIRMAN : Ladies and Gentlemen, I rise to move the adoption of the Report and Accounts for    the    year    ended     the    31st    December,    1935,   and although I have no doubt you have studied them both very carefully—they were sent out on the 5th instant—I am going to take the liberty of saying something on one or two features which seem to me to be of particular interest and importance—and I am going to divide my remarks into two parts, firstly in regard to our trading profit and secondly in regard to debt reduction. “It is  often   said,  and    with   a    good    deal    of     reason, I am afraid, that this Company has been unduly burdened with debt. That is an old story which I need not examine now, as I am sure you are all only too familiar with it. The Debenture debt at present absorbs nearly all our working profits. We are therefore always faced with the dual problem of how to increase our trading surplus so as to try to pay interest on the ordinary capital, and at the same time to reduce the burden of debt so that the Debenture interest will not eat up such a large proportion of such trading profits as we make. “Now I must at once admit that, so far as increas¬ ing our trading surplus is concerned, 1935 has been a very disappointing year, and all that we are able to show you to-day is an improvement of £5,000 over 1934. This mediocre and disappointing result is almost entirely due to the incidence of rubber restriction. As you will see from the last page of our accounts, if you will turn to them, the value of rubber exported during the year under review was no less than £126,000 below that of the previous year. 1935 has been a difficult year all through in the rubber industry—owing, of course, to the restric¬ tion policy (I think a very wise one) which has been adopted—but it is universally admitted that North Borneo has been hit more hardly than any other producing country. I do not think it is necessary for me to discuss here how this unfortunate state of affairs has come about. It is sufficient to know that our peculiarly unfortunate situation is now universally acknowledged. I fear that nothing now can be done to improve that situation relatively to other producers during this first period of restriction, and we must content ourselves with so preparing our case as to ensure better treatment when the whole scheme comes up for revision during 1938. With that object in view we are, with your per¬ mission, sending Sir Andrew McFadyean, who is our representative on the Rubber Committee, to Borneo this year, so that he can study the problem on the spot and present our case with full authority and first-hand knowledge when the time comes. With our case in his hands we will be assured of first-class advocacy, as I think his colleagues on the Committee will be very ready to admit. Even then there will be difficulties, and 1 personally do not envy the Rubber Committee their task. As an instance of what lies ahead of us, I might quote Bataviaasch Nieuwsblad of March 17th, which stated that ‘based on preliminary results of native rubber registrations, the potential production of native rubber should he estimated at not less than one million tons a year’ —that amount is in regard to native rubber alone— ‘which is considerably more than the 1936 export quotas of all the restriction countries put together.’ Those quotas were based upon 60 per cent, of the International quota. ‘Also that the number of native garden owners was considerably greater than was at first believed, and as far as could be ascertained at the moment, ran to more than 500,000.’ That is a problem which will have to be reviewed during next year and 1938, when the allotments of the various producing countries come up for revision if restriction is to be continued, as 1 think most people are agreed should be. “I am glad to say that this year in certain ways looks better than last, as lubber prices are distinctly higher and rather larger quantities are being released as from the 1st July. Increased exports means increased purchasing power, which brings heavier imports, with; we hope, better figures for the Railways. “I will now turn to the administrative side of our business. A marked and very important feature of Mr. Jardine’s administration is his very active per¬ sonal interest in the welfare of the native population, more particularly in regard to health and education, for which he is doing everything that our slender financial resources will permit. “Even more important, perhaps, as an enquiry, which has recently been instituted, into the health of the native population, particularly that of the more remote tribes of the Interior Everyone connected with our administration—especially, I may say, our Principal Medical Officer, Dr. Dingle —has Jong been disturbed aud puzzled by the stationary figures of our native population. Not only does there appear to be little natural increase, but amongst the Maruts there is an absolute decrease. We all know how extraordinarily difficult it is to get reliable statistics of this kind from a primitive population, but the last Census, in 1931, seemed to put the matter clearly and beyond doubt. It was then revealed that while the total native population had increased in ten years by no more than I per cent., among the Muruts there was a decrease of nearly 20 per cent. I have a number of figures here in regard to the different tribes—figures with which 1 do not propose to trouble you at this moment, but as they have considerable interest, they will be published in the Report. Dr. Campbell, the American Doctor who was in our service for many years, and who did such excellent work while he was Government Medical Officer of the Interior, found that out of 575 children he examined at six different places in 1931, the majority were physically unfit—a very curious thing amongst a native population. The proportion of physically fit children ranged from 5 per cent, at Patau to 28 per cent, at Tambunan. The proportion infected with latent malaria was in no case less than 56 per cent., and the proportion infected with hookworm was not less than 60 per cent., except in one cp.se, Sensuran village. Dr. Campbell, in analysing the results of his inspections, also wrote that : “with the great influx of Javanese in 1925 to 1927 our type of malaria changed”—from mild benign malaria, to which the Borneo native developed a certain degree of immunity —‘to a virulent and predominating sub-Tertian disseminated by the new Labourers. Then he says : ‘This is one of the probable reasons for our present Interior health dilemma.’ He puts that as one of the probable reasons. The puzzle is win the introduction of the Javanese should have affected the Muruts so much more acutely than the other tribes. "Now I feel that no Shareholder of this Company would ever deny that our first duty as a Company, and as a Sovereign Power, is to safeguard the welfare of the native population. That always has, and always, I am sure, will take precedence over the more material consideration of dividends. It is for that reason that we have suppressed the gambling farm, thereby depriving ourselves of many thousands of pounds of revenue; it is for that reason that we are steadily discouraging the sales of opium; and it is for that reason that, on the recommendation of Mr. Jardine, we have recently authorized the expen¬ diture of a good deal of money upon a scientific research into the health of the remoter native population. We have been fortunate enough to obtain the services of Dr. Shircore, an old colleague of Mr. Jardine’s in East Africa, where he has been responsible for exactly the sort of investigation which we believe we need. He is now in the interior, and with him is Mr. G. C. Woolley, who was for many years a valued servant of the Company and whose knowledge of the native population is unrivalled. It is anticipated that their investigations, which began towards the end of 1935, will take at least a year to complete, and then they will prepare their report. They have this in their favour, that Dr. Dingle and his Staff have by their tact and sympathy through many years, won the complete confidence of the primitive population with the result that there is no reluctance on the part of the natives to submit themselves to examination. Half the battle has been won, and if Dr. Shircore can help us to win the other half we shall be deeply grateful to him and to our Governor. Even on the most material grounds a healthy population is a much more valuable asset than an unhealthy one. "I will now say a few words about the second of our great Industries, namely, Timber. There was a short time, before the days of restriction, when timber was the most valuable export of the country, but those days are gone, and Rubber—even in a bad year like 1935—again occupies the first place. Nearly everyone in this room will, I think, remember that towards the end of 1934 there was a disastrous fire at the Timber Company's yard, which completely burnt out the Mills, Buildings, and everything else. Al one time it was thought possible that output might have to be restricted by as much as 25 per cent. Actually, however, the output of the Timber i Company, apart from its sub-licensees, during 1935, was less than 400,000 cubic feet below that of 1934. For this result great credit must be given to the Management and the employees of the Timber Company. I apeak about the Timber Company for many reasons, but one particularly because it is important for us to note that the principle market for our timber is Japan, which during last year took no less than 49 per cent, of our export. In these days we hear much of cheap Japanese goods exported to other countries. It is well that we should sometimes realize that they, like other people, have their imports. "This brings me to the very flourishing Japanese Fishing Industry, which is established in our waters. This Company now employs over 300 hands and continues to increase its fleet. It is now proposed to export frozen fish in addition to the dried and canned article. Tn this connection it is interesting to note that while the Japanese are responsible for only a quarter of the total export of fish, the value of their trade is nearly two-thirds of the whole. That is due to scientific treatment. “The last Japanese Industry to note is pearl culture on Mabul Island. It seems to be doing fairly well, but, as mentioned last year, the beds are too exposed, and on the advice of a Japanese expert who recently visited the island, they will soon be removed to more sheltered waters where better results are anticipated. Other articles of export which have done well— is you can see from the figures—are Copra, which nearly doubled in value, and firewood. There was also an export of £6,000 worth of Kawang Nuts against nothing in 1934. Another interest, about which I have had several letters, is, the exploration operations conducted by the Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Company’s Geologists. They have worked over the following twelve separate localities : Padas Gorge, Klias Swamp Basin, Beau¬ fort-Papar-Jesselton, Kudat Peninsula. Bengkoka Peninsula, Labuk Bay, and the Islands of Balam- bangan, Banggi. Malawalli and Jambongan. We shall have to wait, us I told you, some time longer before we have any definite results, but at least exploration has not censed. It will be interesting to you to know that the second stage is just about to be started—that is, the gravity tests. The geological exploration is practically complete, and the gravity tests are now, I am told, about to begin. "I should not like to close these scanty remarks without saying something of the extra strain which has been put upon almost everybody, from His Excellency downwards, by the insufficiency of Rubber quota. It is very aggravating for o people to see their neighbours enjoying more liber treatment than themselves. At times the situation has been strained, if not tense, and but for the ta and patience of the administration, and for the self- control and restraint of our people, things might have been much worse. Let me once more put in a word for our Rubber Controller in his most difficult task.” ‘Apai’: An Appreciation. If sit any time during the past thirty years you had happened to be walking down Island Road, Sibu, at about six in the evening, you might have observed a cloud of smoke advancing rapidly towards you from the direction of the bazaar. On the close approach of this phenomenon your nostrils would have been assailed by the reek of Dusun tobacco, and you would have seen that the smoke-clouds had their origin in the bowl of a pipe which nestled in the middle of an enormous beard. Eventually, when your eyes had successfully pierced the smoke¬ haze, you would have seen that the beard and the pipe were attached to a short and rather burly figure clothed in a white soutane and a scarlet sash; for by now it would have become evident that the prodigy that you had at first taken for a minor upheaval of nature was merely 'Apai' on his way to the Island Club. After a friendly greeting, accompanied by a twinkle from a pair of unusually clear and candid blue eyes, he would have passed on at a sort of quick-step, tapping the gravel with a curly walking stick that would have sent the late Sir Harry Lauder into ecstasies of envy; for Apai, who rarely moved at anything slower than a trot, would to-night have been in even more of a hurry than usual in order to be in time for his bi-weekly game of bowls. Had you chanced to enter the bowling alley a few minutes later, you would have seen Apai, his cassock now thrown aside to reveal a singlet and a pair of slacks, sending the largest balls rolling down the alley with speed and precision.  Not even the excitement of the game or the most strenuous physical exertion, however, could induce him to lay aside his formidable pipe, which throughout the evening would continue to emit smoke and sparks to the imminent danger of the surrounding expanse of beard. Why this appendage never caught fire remains an insoluble mystery: certainly its apparent incombustibility was a source of continued wonder to his friends, who were always expecting to hear that the celebrated beaver,’ which was the pride not only of Apai himself, but of the whole of Sibu. had gone up in a sheet of flame. Fortunately tins never happened, and Apai continued to wave lighted matches around the bowl of his pipe with impunity , and to remark with a chuckle that his beard’s non- inflammable qualities might come in useful in a future life. The Island Club was always the brighter for one of Apai's visits, and the affection in which he was held was reflected in the warmth of his wel¬ come; for he was welcome wherever he went.—his exhilarating high spirits and his charm of manner were as refreshing as a burst of sunshine on a dull day. The simile is hackneyed, certainly, but in the case of Father Halder it is difficult to think of one that is more apt. He really was able to impart to others some of the sunshine that shone in his own eternally youthful heart, and to share with them the happiness and enthusiasm that were his in such overflowing measure. He got on with every- one. yet he was in no sense of the word a ‘back- slapper,’ a professional good fellow and mixer; he was utterly free from affectation of any kind, nor was he capable of assuming a geniality that he did not feel- The fact that he was invariably such good company was due simply to his bright and sympathetic nature, and to his genuine delight in the society of his friends. He was never known to say a bitter or an unkind thing about anyone, yet he j had a great sense of humour, and thoroughly appreciated a joke. Apai got a tremendous kick out of life,—no one could be with him for very long without feeling this, and without acquiring some of his own infectious optimism which led him always to make the best of everything, and to laugh at life’s trials and troubles. 1 happened to travel over with him to Singapore last year, and so was able to see something of him in hospital. Apai already had a very good idea of what was wrong with him, but he never allowed the thought of pain, illness and death to damp his spirits for a moment. As he himself remarked— "If my illness is incurable, why, that’s that : I am not afraid to die!” And he refused to allow his friends to worry any more than he did himself. Indeed, he regarded his trip to Singapore more in the light of a holiday than anything else, and enjoyed it thoroughly. Needless to say, he got the most out of each fresh experience, and he was       very appreciative of all that was done for him. The ship in which he travelled was the most comfort¬ able vessel on the seven seas, the service was perfect, the food excellent ; the General Hospital, loo, was such a magnificent place that it was a real pleasure to be in it; the doctors were wonder¬ ful, the nurses and attendants miracles of kindness and thoughtfulness. It was all characteristic of Apai. just as it was like him never to complain; I shall never forget his laughter when he described to me an operation which must have been extremely painful. Instead of dwelling on this side of it, however, he turned the whole thing into a joke, and to such good effect that after a few moments 1 was laughing about it too. Father Halder was, I think, the finest character I ever met. It is probably safe to say that during the whole course of his life he never hurt a single person by word or deed. He saw only the best in everyone, and looked always on the brighter side of human nature; for in spite of repeated trials and disappointments he never lost his illusions, or his belief in the innate goodness of mankind. He was big’ in every sense of the word,—his mind was above all pettiness, envy and malice. Apai was deeply religious without being in the least sanctimonious, and it was this, I think, that largely accounted for the respect which he evoked quite unconsciously and without effort in everyone he met; there was a quality of simplicity and quiet sincerity in his way of life that made one love and trust him instantly. After his death, and even during his lifetime, one heard on all sides the term "Saint” applied to him. and who shall say that this was any exaggeration ? If absolute simplicity, purity and honesty, combined with an abundance of human charity and a great capacity for gentle laughter are any qualifications for the title, he most certainly earned it. The Mission at Sibu owes a great debt to his faith and unremitting energy. He was the beloved shepherd of a largo and varied flock, all of whom he knew personally, and to all of whom he was an unfailing source of comfort and strength. In his funeral address Mgr. Hopfgartner remarked that with Father Halder was buried a piece of old Sibu ; this is true, for he was such an essential part of the life of the island that it is almost impossible to imagine it without him. He leaves behind him the fruits of more than thirty years' continuous endeavour, and the work that be accomplished in this period will remain as an enduring memorial to him. He also leaves a gap which cannot be filled, for we. who were privileged to know hirn. know that we shall not easily find such another; we have lost in him a great and good man, and a very charming friend. Why Umio Snores no more. From Our Own Correspondent PT. MORESBY, June 6. The unpleasant habit of snoring was checked rather drastically in Rigo recently, when the deep vibrations of an elderly native, Fania Umio, were unfortunately mistaken for those of a pig, and he was speared to death before the mistake became known. It seems that in a hunt for pigs, one night at Rigo, Umio was charged with guarding the trap while his companions dispersed. The night was dark, and the waiting tedious. Umio’s old bones ached, and soon he was snoring, with grunts so thick and vigorous that no other animal than a pig could produce them. Guided by the sound, the party crept back, and one Tagugaina, stealthily drove his spear home. To his dismay he found later on that the dark form lying dead on the ground was no pig, but his old uncle, Umio ! Tagugaina was charged in the Central Court with murder, hut under the circumstances was found not guilty and discharged. —Pacific Islands Monthly. [The above is an interesting variant of the local trick of one Dayak filling another with buckshot on the same excuse.—ED.] Bligh’s Open Boat Voyage. INTERESTING RELICS IN NEW ZEALAND. Through the cinema, books, and newspaper articles much prominence has been given in recent months to the Bounty mutiny and Captain Bligh's subsequent amazing voyage in an open boat to Timor. The fierce spotlight of publicity bus now uncovered the interesting fact that one of Bligh's grandsons lives at Inglewood, near New Plymouth, in New Zealand. He is Dr. E. S. Nutting, and in his possession are the historic gourd, cup, bullet, and compass used on the epic sea journey after the loyal men had been cast adrift by the mutineers. The gourd from which Bligh ate his allowance of bread and water on the voyage in the Bounty's launch is fashioned from the shell of a coconut. On it are faintly penned the words. “The cup I eat my miserable allowance out of." The small cup made from the horn of some animal measured the water, one gill served to each man three times a day. On the bullet is written, “The bullet, 1-25 of a lb. was the allowance of bread which supported 18 men for 48 days served to each person three times a day.” The compass is that with which the little open boat was steered from Tofua (Tonga) to Timor, 3618 miles. Besides these historic mementoes, Dr. Nutting has a collection of sketches by Captain Bligh. These are artistically and minutely drawn. —Pacific Islands Monthly Public Enemy. Q. And now, Mr. Gooch, please tell the court your occupation. A. Well, sir, I suppose you might call me a whistle-imitator. Q. You mean you go around sounding like steamboats and railroad trains? A. Naw, that there is kid stuff! What I do is whistle the same stuff that other people is whistling. Q. I'm afraid 1 don't understand. Mr. Gooch. A. Well, like for instance, supposing yon was in an elevator somewhere and you was whistling softly some tune like “Red Sails in the Sunset." Well, I get into the elevator and I start whistling “Red Sails in the Sunset" too. Q. Is that all there is to it? A. Oh, no. I generally whistle it a little faster than you do and I also whistle pretty loud. Q. So that I have to make up my mind whether to whistle as fast as you are or stop whistling altogether. Is that it ? , A. Well, yes. And if you start to whistle as fast as I do. why then I simply change the key on you. Q. It sounds like fascinating work. A. Yes, sir! I never will forget the day about three years ago when I caught Gatti-Casazza com¬ ing out of the Metropolitan Opera House whistling the Soldiers' Chorus from Faust. Q. What did you do? A. Woll, sir, I fell in behind him and I starts to whistle the Soldiers’ Chorus, too, only I changed the key on him. Left him high and dry, I did ! Q. And then what did he do? A. He stopped whistling. Q. I don't suppose you get many opportunities like that one ! A. Oh. I don't know. I get a chance at nearly every Bing Crosby picture. I’m usually whistling pretty well into the second chorus by the time he’s winding up the first. Q. Tell me. Mr. Gooch, what do you do in the evening for recreation? A. Well. I generally sit and play the radio loud so the people downstairs will telephone up. but sometimes I go out visiting and play other people's radios so loud that nobody can hear what anybody is saying. Q. And what does your wife think of all this? A. She ain't got much time to think on account of she is pretty busy with her own work. Q. What does Mrs. Gooch do? A. She writes funny stuff in the margins of public library books. like “Turn to Page 46 for some hot stuff!" Q. Well, this has been very illuminating, Mr. Gooch, and I want to thank you. A. Can I go now? I've got a date to meet the wife at the Bijou theatre. We’re going in and spend the afternoon beating time on the backs of seats.—DOUG WELCH in Judge. Films of the Month. The month opened at the Sylvia Cinema with I Cecil de Mille’s ‘Mightiest Production,’ The Crusades, an unbelievably silly and vulgar historical travesty in which we were once again treated to display of the De Mille obsession which can bes be described as Stupendomania. This director relies on mass effects in the hope that they will stun his audiences and blind them to his complete lack of taste, imagination, and any kind of artistic sense; he strives to overwhelm us with bigness, and so leave us gasping “ What a film!".—for to producers of his type an exclamation such as this repeated rapturously by several million morons spells Success with a capital 'S.' So long as thousands of horsemen gallop madly across vast expanses of country to take part in terrific battles under the walls of gigantic castles, so long as fire and boiling oil are mined upon hundreds of massed human beings; so long as there is a plethora of armour, spears, tapestries, engines of war and perky blondes with enamelled faces and tough Middle West accents dressed in mediaeval costumes, why. that is all that is needed : the film is bound to be a riot, and in view of the present level of public taste. it usually is. Here we had the mixture as before, and since it played to packed audiences most of whom remained in their seats until the bitter end. it must have had something to recommend it. A very different kind of entertainment was Friday The 13th, a British picture with an all-star cast that showed us just what British producers can do when they really try. This was a splendid film, beauti¬ fully produced and photograped. well acted, and with a plot that held one’s attention all the time. The story followed the 'Bridge of San Luis Rey’ formula; six people were shown in a London bus just before it met with an accident,—the film then switched back to tell us through a series of episodes just why those people happened to be in that parti¬ cular bus. and what effect the, accident had on their lives, and on the lives of others. These episodes were brilliantly interwoven into a story that had all the necessary qualities of pathos, humour and excite¬ ment. The production, too, reached a high level of competence,—there was no trace of the amateurish¬ ness from which so many British films suffer. Emlyn Williams was excellent, as the blackmailer, and Max Miller gave a delightful study of a cheap¬ jack salesman from the Caledonian market. But indeed, all the players were good, though this, after all. was only to be expected in a cast, that included Sonny Hale. Frank Lawton. Edmund Gwenn, Gordon Harker, Robertson Hare. Jessie Matthews (what a lovely creature she is!) and Martita Hunt. A memorable picture. If only British films would maintain this tech¬ nical and artistic level, they would have no reason to fear competition from Hollywood. Listen to what a celebrated American film critic wrote quite recently :— “There is no reason why the English should not eventually lead the world in the motion picture manufacturing business They have the best of all writers and actors, they understand pageantry and circus better than any other nation because the British Empire itself is built on pageantry and circus, they know more about bamboozling and satisfying savages than any other Government. “They are still frequently amateurish in the technique of the cinema, but they may in time bungle through to perfection in that direction.” The sooner we ‘bungle through' and improve our technique the better for the British film industry,— and, incidentally, for the film public. Over The Garden Wall, with Bobby Howes and Marian Marsh, was an embodiment of all the faults which make one stay away from British films : a dull story, dull dialogue, uninspiring tunes and incredibly amateurish production. It was simply a second-rate musical comedy transferred bodily to the screen without modification. When will British producers realise that one simply cannot apply the same technique to the stage and the screen ’. This criticism applies also to A Cup Of Kindness (the usual Tom Wall—Ralph Lynn— Robertson Hare mixture) in which good material was spoilt for the same reason. We're In The Money was a delightful comedy with a highly original plot and some sublime lunacy on the part of Hugh Herbert. Joan Blondell and Glenda Farrell were admirably cast as the two hard-boiled little process-servers whose adventures made up a first-rate film,—slick, funny, and con¬ vincing. Hugh Herbert, incidentally, is one of the very few really funny comedians at present on the screen. Among the others are Charlie Ruggles, whose clever fooling redeemed a wildly extravagant plot in Murder On The Runaway Train, and Stan Laurel, who was at his best in The Bohemian Girl, a picture which gave him and Oliver Hardy a chance for some admirable clowning. At their best, these two comedians can he very good indeed, and The Bohemian Girl was a riot of laughter all the way through. Peg Of Old Drury, starring Anna Neagle and Sir Cedric Hardwicke, was another first-rate British production, though the design of the film bore a suspicious resemblance to Nell Gwynn, in which these two stars scored a notable success some time ago. But the acting and photography were so out¬ standingly good that we didn’t mind. Thanks A Million, with Dick Powell and Ann Dvorak, was good Saturday night entertainment. First Division News. JULY. Forty-six civil and sixty criminal cases came before the Kuching courts during July. On July 6th at an inquest into the death of a Kheh Chinese, named Jong Fook, a verdict of death from misadventure was returned. Deceased was one of the coolies employed on the excavations that are taking place at the landing¬ ground at the 7th mile, lie was killed instantaneously by a heavy fall of earth while engaged in levelling an embankment. The District Officer, Kuching, paid a routine visit to Lundu, Simatan and Telok Serabang during the month. It is gratifying to be able to report that the Kampong bridge at Santubong is nearing com¬ pletion. In December, 1934, orders were given that this bridge should be reconstructed without delay. Owing, however, to the fact that the village has been divided against itself for a con¬ siderable time, and to the fact that the Tua Kampong found himself incompetent to deal with the trouble, little or no progress was made in the re-erection of the bridge. The Datu Hakim visited Dayak villages at Git, Nyiru, Landeh, Sigo and Tamato to distribute notices announcing the forthcoming Tapping Holiday, and to attend to any other matters brought up for discussion. During the course of his visit he was approached by inhabitants of Kampong Sentah and Sekrak with regard to the petition recently submitted requesting the rein¬ statement of Tua Kampong James as Ketua'an Orang Kaya. The Datu Bentara visited Santubong, Buntal, Bako, Muara Tebas, Sambir, Temberat, Setekan, Stampin, Merdang Gayam, Bayor, Sungei Plai'i and Tabuan. Notices announcing the forthcom¬ ing tapping holiday were distributed. Several Chinese have recently submitted appli¬ cations to erect shophouses at various places up river and on July 3rd, accompanied by Mr. J. L. Noakes, Assistant Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, the District Officer proceeded by launch to Sungei Tapang to inspect the sites men¬ tioned in the applications. No fewer than eleven shops were found between Batu Kawa and Sungei Tapang, and of these five are scattered about in garden? in the immediate vicinity of the Dayak village at Tamato. As it is undesirable for these shops to remain on their present sites, the Acting Resident, the District Officer, Kuching, the District Officer, Ban, and the Assistant Superintendent of Lands and Surveys visited Batu Kitang arid Kranji on July 10th, with a view to selecting a suitable site for a bazaar area. H.M.S Herald, under the command of Com¬ mander N. A. C. Hardy R.N., anchored at Pending on July 17th, and left on the 20th. Entertainments arranged for the ship’s company included hockey, football and cricket matches against Kuching teams. At Bau an inquest was held on the body of a Chinese named Chong Shui, who was reported to have met his death by drowning in a pond at the Bau Gold Mining Syndicate on July 28th. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned. 872 persons were treated at Bau Government Dispensary during July, and 75 N.A.B. injections were given. The Dresser-in-Charge visited the Left-Hand Branch, where 999 persons were treated during the trip and 25 N.A.B. injections were performed. A drain has been constructed behind the Junior Staff quarters near the Bau Court-house in order to drain the swamp area there, which is a bad breeding-place for mosquitoes. The swamp near the Police barracks has also been drained for the same reason. A Land Dayak of Kampong Gumbang, Nga- wai by name, reported on the 19th that while out pig-shooting that morning he had shot a relation of his. It appeared that the shooting had taken place in N.E.I. territory, and the local Courts having no jursidiction. the Dutch authorities were informed. — Dahan Rubber estates harvested 19,800 lbs. dry rubber during July. Rainfall at Bau was 5.54 inches, and at Dahan 4.54 inches. The District Officer reports that the supply of fresh vegetables from the Prison Garden at Bau exceeds the demand, and surplus vegetables are being sold to Government servants. Although no new companies came into being during the month, prospecting continues at a steady pace. The S'buran Gold Mine created something of a record during the month by obtaining 354.64 fine ounces of gold from 174 tons of ore. The average, price of gold for the month of June was $58.38. Royalty paid amounted to $12,336.48. The following table gives the individual output of gold for June, 1936, by the various mining companies operating in Upper Sarawak :— The Native Officer, Lundu, mentions in his report that the Dayak village at Pueh is now fairly clean, since all the inhabitants have removed their pigs, which were formerly fed underneath their houses, into newly-constructed styes. This must be a welcome innovation. 5,000 pikuls of tengar bark were shipped from the Lundu district to Selalang by m.v. Masnona and Sidney R. Maw during the month. On July 11th Mr. G. F. J. Pegler, District Officer, accompanied by Mr. N. E. Hughes arrived at Lundu by m.l. Lucile. The former stayed at the station until the 14th when he proceeded on patrol duty along the coast between Cape Datu and Santubong, and the latter left for Talang Talang the following day. They returned again on the 16th. The following are extracts from a report by Abang Zambari, Native Officer. Lundu :— I left on a Dayak tour on July 27th, accom- . panied by Abang Sulaiman, Probationary Native Officer. We travelled overland as far as Biawak. It appears that no improvements in the conditions of the Beduan and Pasir Ulu long houses have been made since my last visit to these kampongs, and in spite of better con¬ ditions these people take little or no interest in kampong affairs. "Pengarah Kusoi informed me that the inhabitants of Pasir Ilir and Kanda-ee intend to erect long-houses immediately after the harvest, but eight doors, which are part of the intended long-house, have already been erected. "The usual lecture on rubber restriction, tuba fishing and general adat was given at each house visited, and all outstanding cases were settled "A meeting regarding the construction of a bridge over Sungei Belinsah was held between Pueh Dayaks and Telok Serabang people, and they appear agreeable to have it erected before the landas. The construction will commence on August 1st. "At Telok Serabang the kampong was quiet as most of the people were still away fishing somewhere in the vicinity of Cape Datu and Telok Melanau. In view of- the fair weather, good catches are be expected. "Reports were continually received from Malays and Chinese of Telok Serabang that much of their coconut and vegetable gardens have been spoilt by monkeys and wild pigs which are exceptionally numerous in this part of the country this year." The District Officer, Samarahan and Serian, reports that during the month the down river Malay kampong at Serian was demarcated and an up river site for another kampong was proposed and cleared preparatory to survey. Dayak Tax at Serian has nearly all been paid, though there are still a few defaulters in the Samarahan. Boundary disputes amongst the Land Dayaks in the Serian District are becoming excessive. During the District Officer’s visit to the Ulu Sadong this month he heard preliminary enquiries into the following boundary disputes : Tebeduk vs. Tomah; Meringgu vs. Koran; S’binting vs. Semabang; Mentu vs. Mentong; Mentu vs. Mayang; Bidak vs. Taup. The people from each kampong have been instructed to cut a rentis where they think the boundary should be, and the disputants have also been told that unless they can arrange mutual boundaries and have them registered in the Serian Offices, both parties will be called upon to deposit $15 towards the cost of a survey. Old records will be examined and each case settled and then application made to the Land and Survey Department for demarcation with concrete marks. Land in the half-mile reserve along the Serian- Tebekang Road was thrown open to alienation on July 15th and by the end of the month about 35 applications had been received. A survey of all the land from the 88th Mile to Serian was completed on July 16th The Director of Public Works visited Serian on July 6th and decided to lower the level of the Kuching Bond in front of the bazaar to the level of the new shop-houses, and to use the earth and stones thus obtained for filling at the back of the bazaar. The Principal Medical Officer accom¬ panied the Director of Public Works and agreed that the filling in at the back of the bazaar was a matter of urgency if the back premises are not to become both dangerous and insanitary. The water supply for Serian was examined by the Principal Medical Officer and Director of Public Works who were both of the opinion that the present supply (Sungei Serian) was totally in¬ adequate and highly insanitary. It was proposed that water should he brought from Sungei Ranchang or Sungei Kranji on the Smuja moun¬ tain. and this would mean laying down a pipe-lino some 2 1/2 miles in length. Further details are required by the Director of Public Works and so a census of the population in Serian is being taken and a rentis is being cut direct to Sungei Ranchang. The following are extracts from a report by the District Officer, Samarahan and Serian, on a trip to the Ulu With Native Officer Abang Samsudin, and Native Officer Abang Latip, I visited the Ulu Sadong from 14th to 28th. All villages which were visited (88 in all) bad been cleaned and nearly all those who bad been ordered to build new houses had done so and had built a very much better type of house than the Land Dayak usually docs. If a policy of gentle persuasion is continued, the Land Dayaks will soon learn to take a pride in their villages. From the few villages who had disobeyed the order to build new houses (Mongkos, Plaman Lobang Batu, Slabi) 1 took pledges of gongs. "Besides six boundary disputes there were no cases of importance—Orang Kaya Akoi of Temah accompanied me part of the way and I think he would do well as an Orang Kaya Temonggong. Four new Pengarahs and Penglimas were elected at various villages to replace officials who have died, but I am not replacing any Orang Kayas until it has been decided whether the Land Dayaks are going to be administered through an Orang Kaya Temonggong of the District, or through Orang Kayas of each village. "The Dresser visited the left-hand branch of the Ulu Sadong with me and gave injections and did some vaccinating." The District Officer states that Serian as the centre of the Sadong and Samarahan districts is becoming a very busy centre, and it would not be surprising if shortly two Europeans are found to be necessary, especially if the regular travelling in the Ulu Sadong and Samarahan is to be kept up. NOTE. The Superintendents of Lands and Surveys points out that the paragraph on Moyan land affairs which appeared on page 189) of the last issue of the Sarawak Gazette conveys a wrong impression of what took place, and comments as follows — “There was no question of other people being given title to the land—the alternative to the occupier taking out title was that the land would become communal reserve. Such a communal reserve would be common to member of that kampong or house and would be administered by the Tua Kampong or Tuai Rumah. No rent is payable on such Communal Reserves. “The impression created by your further statement, anent the natives already having large debts tv Government, for quit rent is also perhaps somewhat misleading as the majority of natives in that urea do not possess titles and have not been called on to pay quit rent. “4s the first is rather a fundamental difference and your paragraph might give rise to an unfortunate impression I would be glad if you                   would make the  matter dear in your next issue." St. Thomas’ School. JUBILEE MEMORIAL FUND. The response to the appeal published in the May issue of the Sarawak Gazette has been encouraging, About 260 ‘Old Boys’ and friends of the school have bribed or promised $3,411.13 up to and includ- ing 22nd August, 1936. This sum lulls short of what we hoped to collect, but there must be many past members and friends of the school who have not yet sent in donations and who will wish to do so. A further sum of $11,589 is still needed to reach the total aimed at. It will be remembered that our aim is to raise sufficient money to establish a Bursary Fund to enable some worthy children of poor parentage to receive education when they cannot afford to pay fees. If the total of $15,000 is collected a portion would go towards the erection of a Grand Stand on the Playing Fields or a School library either of which would sene as a fitting memorial of the Jubilee. It is with very many thanks that the Committee acknowledge the following donations which have been paid or promised :— Sarawak Turf Club. MINUTES OF A COMMITTEE MEETING OF THE SARAWAK TURF CLUB HELD AT THE SARAWAK CLUB ON THE 24TH AUGUST, 1936, AT 6.15 P.M. Present.—Mr. II. B. Crocker (in the Chair), The Datu Shahbandar, Messrs. Tan Sum Guan, Chan Qui Chong, J. B. Archer, E. S. Holl and G. T. Bates. Absent.—Messrs. Wee Kheng Chiang, P. M. Adams, C. B. Adams and B. J. C. Spurway. Minutes.—The Minutes of the Committee Meet¬ ing held on the 12th June, 1936, were read and confirmed. Programme.—Mr. Tan Sum Guan proposed and Mr. J. B. Archer seconded that the Jubilee Stakes be changed to Padungan Slakes. Passed. Mr. Barcroft.—A letter from Mr. Barcroft relative to his and Mr. W. J. Chater's colours was read. Decided to register Mr. Barcroft's new colours and to thank him for meeting Mr. Chater in this dispute. Mr. II. Read's Bay Mare Pretty Polly.—Mr. Chan Qui Chong informed the Committee that he had heard that the sire and dam of this marc were not foaled in British North Borneo and that the mare was not eligible to race in Sarawak. The Secretaries were instructed to communicate with Mr. Read. Mr. R. Sinclair.—A letter from Mr. Sinclair was read regarding to his subscription. It was decided that as Mr. Sinclair was at an outstation until April and did not attend the Spring Meeting he pays the outstation subscription for 1936. Mr. Archer's Scheme, to alter Race Course.—The Secretaries were instructed to get a large scale plan made and a rough estimate of cost. Chartered Bank Land.—It was decided that nothing can be done until after the Development Committee have decided on their scheme. Judge for Autumn Meeting.—Decided to invite Mr. Middlemas to act as Judge. Sanitary Arrangements.—Secretaries to arrange for a suitable lavatory for Members. Tea Room.—Secretaries to arrange for the Tea Room to be examined by the P.W.D. to see if it la¬ in a safe condition. Sarawak Turf Club. Provisional Programme for the Autumn Meeting 1936. FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, 26TH SEPTEMBER, 1936. RACE NO. 1 [2.30 p.m. THE TUAN MUDA'S CUP. Value $250. A piece of plate of the value of $100 presented by His Highness the Tuan Muda with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 2 THE SEKAMA STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. A handicap for Division II ponies, furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 8 THE DATUS' STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. A handicap for Division III ponies, furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 4 THE B.C.L. STAKES. Value $250. $50 presented by The Borneo Company Limited, with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 5 [4.30 p.m. THE MATANG STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division 11 ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE No. 6 [5.0 p.m. [3.0 p.m. Third $10. Distance 5 [3.30 p.m. Third $40. Distance 6 [4.0 p.m. THE PENDING STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $10. A handicap for Division HI ponies. Distance 3 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 7 [5.80 p.m. THE RANEE’S CUP. Value $250. A piece of plate of the value of $100 presented by Her Highness the Ranee with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for ponies of any Division. Distance 1 mile. Entrance fee $10. Post entries allowed at $20 but no refund. $5 refunded to non-acceptors. Handicap published on the Course. SECOND DAY, MONDAY, 28TH SEPTEMBER, 1936. RACE NO. 1 [2.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STEAMSHIP CO'S STAKES. Value $250. $100 presented by The Sarawak Steamship Company, Limited, with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 2 [3.0 p.m. THE SIME DARBY STAKES. Value $250. $50 presented by Messrs. Sime Darby & Co., Ltd., with $200 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 6 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 3 [3.30 p.m. THE SARAWAK STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 5 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 4 [4.0 p.m. THE PADUNGAN STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division I ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 5 [4.30 p.m. THE STATES SPRINT. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division II ponies. Distance 8 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 6 [5.0 p.m. THE TURF CLUB STAKES. Value $250. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for Division III ponies. Distance 4 furlongs. Entrance Fee $10. RACE NO. 7 [5.30 p.m. THE RAJAH'S CUP. Value $300. A piece of plate value $150 presented by His Highness the Rajah with $150 added. Second to receive $100. Third $40. A handicap for ponies of any Division. Distance round the course (about 1 1/2 miles). Entrance Fee $10. $5 refunded to non-acceptors. Handicap published on the Course. Post Entries allowed at $20 but no refund. REGULATIONS. Entries.—All nominations, accompanied by en- trance fees, description of ponies and declaration of colours, are to be made to the Secretaries not later than 29th August, 1936, at noon. Searchings.—Owners scratching ponies before 5 p.m. on 25th September, 1936, for First Day and 5 p.m. on 27th September, 1936, for Second Day, will receive back half their entrance fees. Handicaps.—For First Day will be posted on the Notice Board at the Sarawak Club nt noon on 12th September, 1936, and for the Second Day at noon on 27th September, 1936. The maximum weight shall be 11 stone 7 lbs. and the minimum 7 stone. Course —Will be opened for training on 15th August, 1936, at 5.30 a.m. Penalties.—Winners of any race at a meeting after publication of weights shall carry a penalty of 7 lbs. for each race with a maximum of 11 stone 7 lbs. Prizes.—20% reduction if under 5 entries. No second prize will be awarded if there are less than 3 runners and no third prize if less than 5. Jockeys.—Professional jockeys who are Sarawak subjects and have not ridden more than two winners under Sarawak Turf Club Rules, may claim an allowance of 7 lbs. The maximum fee to a winning Jockey shall be $15 and for second place $10 and for a ride $5 in the absence of any agreement to ride for a lower sum. Whip.—No whip used in any race shall exceed two feet in length. Spurs.—If spurs be worn these shall not have rowels. Ponies.—Must ran on the First Day to be eligible for entry in races on Second Day. Any Borneo pony of not more than 14 hands in height may be imported from B.N.B. and shall be eligible for entry in races open to Sarawak Ponies provided that their sires and dams were foaled in Borneo. All new ponies shall carry top weight on the First Day in the Division in which they are classified, which shall be as follows :— Totalizator.—As usual. Cash Sweep.—As usual with the exception that the promotion expenses of 20% to the Club shall be reduced to 15%—the 5% being appropriated as follows :— Owner of winning horse                  ...      4% Owner of second horse ... 1% and the number of tickets on each race is increased to 2,000. Visiting Members.—A visiting member shall pay a subscription of $5 per week or portion of a week during which he shall be a member of the Club. A nomination of such gentleman to be a Visiting Member shall be signed by two Ordinary Members as respectively proposing and seconding him. Strangers.—Persons not members of the Club or strangers not introduced by a Member, may be admitted within the enclosure of the Grand Stand or of the Paddock during any Meeting on payment of an entrance fee of $5 for each day’s racing. Owners.—Are requested to see that their syces and jockeys obtain necessary badges for entrance to Paddock. Objections.—By owners shall be accompanied by a deposit of $10. Where not otherwise especially mentioned the Rules of the Race Course shall be the same as those adopted by the Straits Racing Association. The decision of the Committee of the Sarawak Turf Club shall be final in all matters of dispute. Communications to be made to THE BORNEO COMPANY LIMITED, Secretaries, Sarawak Turf Club. Kuching Badminton Association. The Association has arranged a programme of friendly inter-party visits for September. In each case, the party mentioned first will be the at home party. The visits may be arranged for any date within the periods specified. Second Division News. JULY. On July 21st an inquest was held at Lingga by the Native Officer on the body of Chang Phai, a trader, who was drowned at Nanga Tatai. It appears that the rope supporting the oar of his trading boat broke while Chang Phai was rowing, and thereby threw him into the water. He was unable to swim, as also were the other persons in the boat. A verdict of death by misadventure was recorded. On July 4th Dresser Sulieman arrived at Lingga from Kuching and proceeded to the ulu to perform vaccinations. This work was completed on the 19th. 119 patients were treated at Simanggang Government dispensary during the month, and 55 N.A.B. injections were performed. The health of the district was good. On July 8th flags throughout the Second Division were half-masted on hearing the sad news of Mr. F. A. W. Page-Turner's death. — Reports from Skrang indicate an excellent harvest, except in the extreme ulu, where crops are moderate. The District Officer, Simanggang, visited the experimental demonstration vegetable garden at N. Enteban on June 27th. Below is an extract from a report by Mr. W. P. N. L. Ditmas, Acting District Officer. Simanggang, on a visit to the Ulu Skrang :— "The following may be of interest, and was told me when I visited R. Unting. "The old house had been burnt down about a year ago, and I happened to notice and remark that there seemed to be no old dogs in the new house. I was told that when a house is accidentally destroyed by fire it is the adat that none of the surviving animals may be kept. Pigs and fowls must be either eaten or sold, and since other Dayaks will not buy dogs, they have to be destroyed. In this case the dogs were all drowned by having stones tied to their necks. All the cats in the house were burnt as they ran straight to the sadau (loft) when the house took fire. 'T understand that this custom is unknown amongst most Dayaks, but that it is practised by Skrang and Kanowit people. Mr. G. R. H. Arundell, District Officer, Lubok Antu, has made inquiries and informs me that this custom is known in the extreme Ulu Ai, and is only practised when a house has been burnt down by the enemy and members of the house killed. The domestic animals are then killed to prevent them disturbing and eating corpses. "Another point which may be of interest is that before, and particularly during, this visit, 1 noticed that the Skrangs use the word Iban to mean men or people (mensia), and not necessarily Sea Dayaks, whom they usually refer to as ‘Dayak.’ As a tribe they refer to themselves as ‘kami Skrang.’ It is possible that this use of Iban may be comparatively a new custom.” On July 18th a Chinese dinner and a Malay curry were provided in the Simanggang Recreation Club as a farewell to Mr. Eng Yaw Huat, Chief Treasury Clerk, who has resigned from the Service, and who has for some time been Hon. Secretary and Treasurer of the Club. At the close of the dinner an inscribed silver cigarette case from the members of the Club was presented to him. On July 7th Dayaks brought in a 13 feet 7 inches crocodile which they had caught at Nanga Skrang. The District Officer, Betong, reports that police patrols paid several visits to the Layar and Spak in in the course of their investigation of the Temagun murder; unfortunately no fresh clues were dis¬ covered. As a result of Government’s prompt action in demolishing certain scattered dampas in the ulu Spak, it is reported that nearly all ulu Dayaks hate now returned to their long-houses. This should facilitate administration, discourage future rebel activities, and generally restore confidence in the ulu. It is pleasing to note that Government's object was attained without undue severity and without en¬ countering active opposition, and has met with the approval of the majority of the Saribas Dayaks. The District Officer hopes to revisit the ulu next month when a more comprehensive survey can he made of the position. Tn the meantime inmates of a long-house at S. Klanpai have been ordered to return to N. Tiga, which they left contrary to orders two years ago. Difficulty may be experienced in enforcing this order, but it is not proposed to take definite action until after the next harvest. A similar order has been given to a two-doored house in the Penebak. On July 16th Jeluieng, an outlaw wanted by the authorities in the Third Division, surrendered at S. Amu Layar. He was escorted to Betong where he was remanded until his departure for Kuching under escort on the 27th. Tn several districts at Saribas natives have com¬ menced clearing the land for next year’s crops. : Efforts are being made to encourage the natives to plant early, but it is unlikely that these will meet with any appreciable success. The importance of planting sufficient root crops has been pointed out to the Dayaks. Jeti, who was remanded on a charge of murder, escaped from Betong prison in the early hours of the morning     of     the     21st;    he    was    recaptured by    Selulap Dayaks the following morning. As a result of this    escape     three     constables      were    prosecuted    under section 223 of the Penal Code. Previous to his escape Jeti is alleged to have attempted suicide on two occasions. On the mornings of July 25th and 26th a Regatta was held in Betong, while land sports and foothall took place in the afternoon. Entries for all events exceeded expectations, and a very large crowd wit¬ nessed the proceedings. The festivities were greatly enlivened by the presence of the Kuching Military Band whose masterly performance won well-deserved applause. The Resident, Second Division, very kindly presented the Regatta prizes while Abang Draup, Native Officer, assisted by handing out the land sport prizes, together with a football cup which he himself had presented. At Roban several cases of working belian without licences were reported by the Forest Guard, the persons concerned were fined; one case was adjourned for the Forest Officer at Sibu to make enquiries; the Dayaks concerned were found to he felling belian wholesale in the ulu Roban. and taking it to the Island Trading Company at Selalang. During the month the Dresser-in-Charge, Kalaka, was sent round to visit all substations in the district including Dayak houses in the ulu Roban and Nyabore. He reported a considerable number of people were suffering from influenza, and vaccinated about two hundred persons. The Malay kampong at Nyabore he considered very unhealthy and over¬ grown. The Malays have been ordered to clean up the kampong. Native Officer Abang Bujang, of Kabong, reports that on July 30th Mr. W. H. Kelley, Assistant Commissioner of Sarawak Constabulary, accom¬ panied by two detectives, arrived in the m.l. Lucile to investigate the disappearance of fishing nets belonging to Chinese off Puloh Burong. Two Malays were found in possession of some of these nets which they stated they found in the sea. Mr. Kelley left the next day for Pusa. Betong Regatta, 1936. A very successful Regatta was held at Betong on Saturday July 25th and Sunday 26th under the patronage of the Resident, Second Division. The Regatta was held on two mornings instead of on the morning and afternoon of one day so that the same course could be followed throughout independently of the whims of the tide. On the first day the three heats in the fifteen-men boats were decided, the flag-bearer of one of the winners having announced beforehand that he was certain of victory on the strength of a dream he had had the night before. It seems that in this dream H.H. the Rajah appeared before him and wished him the best of luck. After the race, curiously enough, the other competitors did not demand the return of their entrance fees. On the second dav the 15 Championship was won by Braok with his boat Sri Kilat Terbang. The fifteen¬ men Consolation Race had to be paddled twice as the result of a more or less unanimous foul at the first attempt. On the Saturday afternoon the final of a boys football competition was played between the Mission School and the Malay School. The former won by two goals to nil. On the Sunday afternoon land sports were held on the Padang. These were excellently organised by Dresser Haji Su’ut and Native Officer Abang Draup. They concluded with a tug-of-war between a team of four Europeans, three Penghulus, one Native Officer, one launch engineer and one police-sergeant, and a team of ten local Malays. The latter pulled the former over with ignominy almost before they had grasped the rope. Lastly, mention must be made of the entertain¬ ment rendered by the Kuching Military Band. These gentlemen tootled and thumped with enthu¬ siasm and energy throughout the heat of the day, and always drew a large crowd. The Regatta Committee is particularly to be congratulated on its enterprise in making the necessary arrangements with the Constabulary authorities, and generally on the provision of a most enjoyable week-end. —K.H.D. Third Division News. JULY. Twenty-nine civil and thirty-four criminal cases came before the Sibu Courts during July. On the 8th a Henghua Chinese named Eck Ah Sui was found guilty on a charge of murder and sentenced to death. Hie Highness the Tuan Muda was pleased to exercise his prerogative of mercy, however, and sentence of death was commuted to one of fifteen years’ imprisonment. A case of voluntarily causing grievous hurt against two Foochow Chinese was dismissed, and the accused acquitted, owing to insufficient evidence. The body of a male Chinese child aged eight was found on Pulo Dudong by a party of Dyaks. The body was brought to Sibu where it was identified, and at the subsequent inquest a verdict of death by accidental drowning was returned. The total land revenue for the Third Division for June amounted to $25,369.06 as compared with $20,953.87 for the corresponding month of the previous year. The collection for Sibu district for the month amounted to $4,649.33 shewing a decrease of approximately $12,000 as compared with the previous month, and approximately $7,000 compared with the corresponding month of the previous year. The large decrease in revenue, it is considered, is mainly due to gardeners being too busy tapping rubber to attend office. It is noticeable that the revenue collection appears to increase during the tapping holiday and to decrease during the tapping period. Mr. C. E. J. Pascoe, Superintendent of Rubber Restriction, visited Sibu from July 29th to 30th, when various matters were discussed, chiefly in connection with the prevention of export of under- smoked and wet rubber. During the month twenty-six new applications for Rubber Exporter’s Licences were approved, and the stock allowances of existing exporters were adjusted with the actual amount of rubber exported by each during the past six months. It was found in the majority of cases that the original stock allowances were too high, although the figures available included the exports of scrap rubber earlier in the year. A number of Sibu exporters deal exclusively in rubber scrap, and are now not exporting anything. This will involve a fresh re-adjustment of all stock allowances in two months’ time. Arrangements were made to increase the staff of local Rubber Restriction Inspectors in order to cope with large numbers of applications to replant. The following are the Sibu and Kanowit trade statistics for the month :— Rubber exports from the Division Chinese gardeners from Engkilo complained that the dumping of bazaar refuse was affecting their water supply. This has been attended to, and all garbages now dumped further down river. Owing to the lack of rain there was a serious shortage of water at Sarikei. M.L. Wullie was used during the month for transporting water to this station. The District Officer, Sibu, reports with regret that on July 11th at about 2.50 p.m. Inspector Mohd. Yan died in hospital. His body was re¬ moved to Data Abang Haji Mohidin's house, and on the 12th at 10.30 a.m. the funeral took place. Among those present were the Officer Superintend¬ ing Sibu Constabulary Sector, Mr. W. L. P. Sochon, Senior Inspector Abang Adeng and a number of members of the Constabulary and representatives of other Services. The   total    rainfall for the    month    was    7.95     inches. On the whole July in Sibu was a dry month. Although fifteen wet days were recorded the rain was slight, and only on two occasions did the rain¬ fall approach the two-inch mark. A mosquito survey of Meluan station area was carried out during the month. This work was done by the Sanitary Inspector from Kuching under the supervision of the Assistant Health Officer. Early in July a meeting was held of the leading members of the Chinese and Malay communities to discuss the advisability, or otherwise, of organising a regatta at the end of the year. Backed by the approval of the Resident, it was decided unanimously that, taking into considera¬ tion the comparative prosperity now enjoyed by all communities, the time had come when it would be justifiable to stage an event that might be enjoyed by all communities throughout the Divi¬ sion. A Committee was formed and arrangements are being made to hold the regatta on Friday, January 1st. 1937, and land sports on Saturday. January 2nd. A Malay employee of the Island Trading Company, at Selalang, was admitted to the Sibu Hospital with damaged fingers. This employee, Suriji bin Aron, admitted that he had met with the accident through his own carefessness while oiling machinery. He attached no blame what¬ soever to his employers. Native Officer F. Ansin made a tour of inspec¬ tion of Penghulu Imai's district, leaving Sibu on the 24th and returning on the 31st. A detailed map showing all Dayak districts is being made; this includes the whereabouts of all Dayak houses and the number of doors to each house. Mr. N. A. Middleman, Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, arrived from Mukah and Oya districts on the 8th. Mr. C. S. Sergel of the same depart¬ ment also arrived and proceeded to Kanowit to carry out survey work. The District Officer. Lower Rejang, reports there was no serious crime in his district during July. A few offences against opium and rubber restriction regulations were dealt with by the Courts. Clearing and burning their farms kept the Lower Rejang Dayaks busy during the month. Abang Openg, Native Officer, acting for the District Officer, met the Travelling District Officer in the Julau, to discuss district and Penghulus’ boun¬ daries ; all Penghulus affected were present at the meeting. It was provisionally decided to give part of Penghulu Nyambar's district to Penghulu Umpor, and to extend the Lower Rejang boundary to include the Sugai Dayaks. White pepper is coming out into the Sarikei and Binatang bazaars in good quantities. The quality is very poor, however, and the price discouraging. The Agricultural Inspector continued his visits to the pepper areas. Some very good pepper land has been found in the Meradu, where gardens are producing 3 1/2 katis per vine. Seventy katis of vegetables were taken from Sarikei vegetable garden for prison consumption during the month. The repairing of Jakar road was completed during the month, and 7 1/2 miles is now open to motor traffic. The Bulat will have to remain closed until it has been metalled. A contract was signed for the delivery of 100 yards of gravel at the junction of the Jakar and Bulat roads. On July 21st or 22nd $815.00 was stolen from the safe in Song Government Office. Investiga¬ tions were made, but so far no charge has been preferred against anyone. Enquiries are con¬ tinuing. Most of the Dayaks in the Kapit district have finished felling and are waiting for a burn; un¬ fortunately continual rain has prevented this and the Dayaks are. beginning to express anxiety over the lack of burning weather. Many of the Kayans have had an early burn before the present wet spell. During the month an extraordinary number of hamadryads were killed at Kapit. A Chinese prisoner serving a sentence of nine months for selling spurious medicines and charms to Dayaks was bitten by one of these creatures while endea¬ vouring to demonstrate the potency of his charms; Ins fellow-prisoners exhorted him to complete his demonstration, but only the timely arrival of the Dresser saved his life, and he was sent to Sibu for further treatment. The prisoners nt Kapit regard this affair as one of the best jokes they have had for years. Below are extracts from a report by the Distr Officer, Kapit, on a tour of the Belaga area :— “I left Kapit on June 4th in the Sri Kapit accompanied by Mr. Spurway, Divisional Forest Officer, N.O. Abang Ahmat. Penghulu Sibat, the Dresser, and two police. The forest staff pro¬ ceeded in an outboard hired from the bazaar. "The Pelagus rapids were difficult owing to very low water, which of course is as bad as high water for travelling. Dayaks and Bukitans were waiting at Wong Embawang to help in the portages. Owing to the amount of barang taken by the Forest Department, the hired outboard had to return for a second load from Kapit. “Portages were necessary at Embawang, Sukat, Kara and Marum. but Matup was negotiated without one. Owing to the fact that much barang had to be transported as well as two boats, we were unable to reach the head of the rapids and spent the night on the rocks at the foot of Wong Lungga. "On the 5th, by 11.30 a.m. we cleared the rapids after another portage. On reaching Nanga Dap some of the heavier barang was left for a return trip of the hired outboard from Belaga. The night was spent at Rumah Saba, Nanga Pila; judging by some coffee growing here the land must be very fertile, and appears to be mainly alluvial silt. “On the 6th proceeded up to Nanga Bah where we picked up Penghulu Puso, and then to the Punan Biaw at Nanga Sama; these houses I left to be visited on my return trip. “1 arrived at Belaga at 8.30 a.m. on the 7th. Penghulu Taman Usun Hang had arrived the previous day, and the bazaar was fairly full. Various collections of revenue were made after the process of settling in had been completed. In the evening both Penghulus and most of the leading Kayans came up to the Fort to discuss matters at large. “On the 8th the Kubu was crowded all day and work was commenced on clearing the Govern¬ ment padang. The erection of a new bridge between the bazaar and Kampong was also started: I brought the prison carpenter from Kapit to do this, and also to effect the necessary repairs to the Government buildings. "In the evening an aum was held in the Kubu attended by both Penghulus. twenty-one heads of houses, and many other tuai. Numerous questions were discussed and such subjects as rubber restriction, forest reserves, padi farm¬ ing, opening of appeals, medical treatment and general relations with the Dayaks were dealt with at some length. As usual, everyone wished to plant rubber. A unanimous request was made for Government to grant an injured party’s share in such cases as Berangkat, Butang and Tunggu Tinggal, there being no injured party's share at present in these fines. Tn my opinion this probably is partly the cause of the unwel¬ come increase in the number of such cases hushed up in the house by mutual agreement, the offender paying compensation to the injured party but inclining no Government fine; naturally such cases on coming to light have been severely dealt with, and the head of the house fined, but the increase is unwelcome from the Government point of view. “After the aum a main was held which con¬ tinued well into the early hours of the morning. "The 9th and 10th were spent in collecting revenue and hearing various cases. “On the 11th I left for Uta Baloi accompanied by Mr. Spurway, calling at Uma Agoing, Uma Kahei, Uma Nyagu (Kejaman) and Uma Aki Tuba (Kejaman) where lunch was taken. All these houses have large debts to Kapit towkays, and now that jungle produce has little price th y appear to be making not the slightest effort to pay anything. “Leaving Uma Apan on 12th we passed Nanga Mejawa and negotiated Wong Kutau and Wong Bakun with a portage occupying consider¬ able time. Passing Wong Bayong Nanga Belepeh and Giam Daha I visited Uma Nyabeng (Long Brahan) and then proceeded up the Baloi to Uma Belur, Uma Kelap, and Uma Lahanan Nanga Pangai, where, the night was spent. There have been many deaths in this house, which is to move a short distance downstream next year. The deaths are all attributed to non- observance of i bad bird-omen about three years ago. “Heavy rain occurred during the night of the 15th and the river began to rise. In the evening I met some of the Punan Tallin ; the Kayans complained of persistent thieving by Ukits of vegetables and fruit, but were unable to prove anything; 1 know that the Kayans would be delighted to have the Ukits moved from what is undoubtedly a very fertile area of ground. “I proceeded downstream on the 16th, leaving Mr. Spurway in the Penghulu's house unable to proceed upstream owing to high water. Calling at Uma Kelap and Uma Belur I spent the night at Long Brahan Uma Nyabeng. “From the 21st to 25th was spent in collect¬ ing revenue and settling cases in Belaga. A notice was published warning the bazaar that any Chinese allowing a native to gamble with him in the bazaar would be prosecuted. It is astonishing how the Kayan is swindled by the Chinese over the bartering of mats, etc.,—just as the Punan is treated by the Kayan and Dayak. In view of the large number of good quality mats made in this district I suggest that some sort of co-operative selling might he adopted under Government supervision; it seems to be going too far when a mat which if sold by auction in Kapit would bring about $5 is purchased by the Chinese or Malays in Belaga for a sarong and a little soap worth about $1. If the mats could he sold in Kuching, no doubt a much higher price would be realised than in Kapit. Jungle produce having no price, the Kayan is hard put to it to make money, and if a steady trade in mats could be organised he would benefit considerably. In view of the ex¬ tortionate profit made by the Chinese and Malays I do not think Government could be accused of interfering without reason. “On the 27th after passing Giam Sah and Giam Supan I reached Uma Oyong Tugang for lunch. A long portage at Wong Urek was made and the night was spent in a temporary langkau we made at Losong Ulaw, the head of the rapids. 1 sprained my ankle badly here but luckily just at the end of the portage, and found myself only able to hobble even with the aid of sticks. “After paddling and poling all day we reached Uma Badang on 30th. These people have pulled down their old dwelling on account of deaths, and expect to build again next year just behind the old site. “On July 1st I continued up to Pala Menoa Uma Bawa for the night. An aum was held concerning Sungei Belaga affairs with all the Tuai Rumah who had accompanied me up-river. “On July 2nd I proceeded down to Uma Bamali for the night; this is a bad house, but the inhabitants are making a valiant effort to throw off their hereditary Punan habits in favour of Kenyah ideas. “There are immense quantities of belian in the Sungei Belaga, but the long continuous rapids unfortunately prevent it being brought down. “The 7th and 8th were spent in Belaga receiving revenue and settling cases. “I received a report from Baloi people which was confirmed by Penghulu Tama Usun Hang that Dayaks ordered to return home by Mr. Hidden were still in the Ulu Linau near the Punan Busang, and had started to farm. Apparently they “have accumulated large quantities of damar and a large number of mats obtained by trading tobacco, cloth, etc., with the Punans: in fact they have collected practi¬ cally all such mats, with the result that most of the Punans have none with which to pay their tax this vear. I have sent Penghulu Sibat, who fortunately was with Mr. Hudden when the Dayaks were ordered to return, to bring down these Dayaks who will be dealt with in Kapit. As they are about six days up the Linau it would have been impossible to wait for them at Belaga. "On the 10th I proceeded down to Uma Balo Kasieng; a new house is being built to replace the old one destroyed by floods. From here I visited Uma Tainan Guru ; in this house there is a turbulent and quarrelsome element beaded by Taman Aloi who aspires to be Tuai Rumah; measures were taken to eradicate this trouble. We reached Belaga at 5 p.m. Owing to two days continuous heavy rain the Baloi and Belaga began to rise rapidly. "On the 11th I cleared up affairs in general preparatory to leaving, but the river had by this time risen too high to permit us to leave on the 12th as arranged. "On the 13th the water having gone down 1 proceeded down-river. After nearly capsizing at Wong Tukok where we shipped much waler we reached Uma Lanyieng for lunch. Calling at Uma Genouri, Punan Biaw, we then spent the night at Uma Punan Bah. Drastic measures were adopted with all these people, who have outstanding fines totalling over $400; it is obvious that they cannot be relied on to keep any arrangement they make with Government. They are still quibbling about the Forest Reserve, but as the Divisional Forest Officer is to call here on his way down they were ordered to see him about the matter. "Leaving Nanga Bah on the 14 th with water in good condition we arrived at Kapit at 3.15 p.m. The rapids were negotiated with the help of Dayaks and only one portage was necessary. "Just below Wong Kara a large whirlpool forced the outboard propeller clean out of the water, and the Dayak sitting behind the engine escaped serious injury by a fraction of an inch. This gives some idea of the powerful currents and eddies that are met with in some of these rapids. "Almost all Belaga tax was collected with exception of Punan Bah and the Punans of Ulu Baloi and Ulu Linau. The latter could only produce a few poor quality mats, all their good ones having been traded to Dayaks. The Dayaks in these Ulus are creating a problem of some gravity, and I propose going thoroughly into the matter as soon as Penghulu Sibat arrives with the various leaders of the upriver workers. "All land revenue, assessment and exemption tax was collected. . "Some system of organized trading with the interior Punans is desirable but it is difficult to see how it can be managed with the present Kapit staff of two Native Officers, and no Govern¬ ment representative at Belaga other than a village constable. "the Belaga people suffer a great deal through lack of medical treatment, and although the Dresser took up a considerable quantity of various medicines, many people had to go with- out. It is hoped to arrange for a supply of the commoner medicines to be placed in the hands of the village constable at Belaga and one or two of the chief natives. "There is some very fertile land m the Belaga district, but the general opinion arrived at is that the people as a whole are definitely lazy when it comes to farming padi; probably they have been spoiled by the ease with which they obtained money a few years ago when jungle produce was easy to obtain and high prices prevailed.” The District Officer, Mukah, reports that the Petanak grave robbery case was settled as follows. Tua Kampong Kudat was found guilty of failing to disclose and intentionally preventing this case from reaching the ears of the Government; he was charged also with receiving stolen gold, and there being an element of doubt he was given the benefit of it and sentenced to three months' simple imprisonment and fined $100 and costs under section 116 of the Penal Code. The two actual grave robbers lloh and Ludau were sentenced to nine months each (having con¬ fessed) and the goldsmith Mang Kee Lan who was proved to have received some of the gold also received nine months. As this crime is becoming unpleasantly prevalent on the Coast the Court informed the Tua Kampongs that any further cases would receive the maximum sentence. An arrangement was made with the Native Officers at Mukah that all tukang sunat should not he allowed to practise unless they have received a certificate from the Dresser saying that they have received instruction in elementary hygienic methods essential in such work. The Tua Kampongs were in agreement with this, and were requested to inform such people that failure to carry out this procedure would render the offender liable to criminal proceedings. Kampong Housing Policy was discussed with the Tua Kampongs and it has now been decided to allow no now houses or rebuilding without a certi¬ ficate after the Tua Kampong has passed the site and building, in order to prevent overcrowding. Notices have also been issued that any owners of broken-down houses will be ordered to rebuild decent ones. It is also intended to stop over¬ crowding up small streams. A good supply of seeds has been received at Mukah and some 100 or so applicants have been supplied with them, in preparation for the Agricultural Show which is to bo held on His Highness the Rajah's birthday. In view of the late arrival of the seeds an extension day for a vegetable show only has been fixed on November Quite a number of small vegetable plots are appearing in the kampongs. All seeds received from Kuching and a proportion of crops from the Demonstration Vegetable Garden are kept in stoppered bottles and particulars are recorded in a register. The new masthead electric light of 500 candle power was established at Kuala Mukah on July 1st. and so far has proved satisfactory. M.L. Leonora was towed to Kuching for repairs on the 7th by m.v. Kim Chin Soon. The Land and Survey Office staff at Mukah handed over to the District Office the Mukah Per¬ sonal Indices. Schedules of Rights, and the work of preparing land deeds, etc., on the 8th, prior to their departure to Kuching. Settlement of land is thus completed on the Coast, and the efficiency and simplicity of operation of this system (once grasped) cannot be over¬ emphasised. It should be recorded that the enormous amount of extra work done by Mr. Hammond and his staff must have resulted in this lengthly operation being completed at least two mouths earlier than would have been possible under normal working hours. The quit rent defaulter register was received and about $3,000 (i.e., approximately three quarters of total rent due) was collected. Visitors to Mukah during July included the Very Rev. Mgr. Hopfgartner, Mr. R. W Hammond and Dr. De Raaf (S.O.L.). Notices were issued at Oya drawing the attention of all traders to the Order in the Green Book which deals with the pass book system of credit trading. It is considered most essential that, this Order be enforced in this district as some of the cases which come before the Courts take an enormous amount of time to deal with, and then in the end most probably the claim has to be dismissed. Bantan anak Madang, who escaped whilst being brought down from the Ulu under arrest in May last, was retaken by Dayaks and brought to Dalat on the 25th. Bantan has been sent to Sibu for trial. The Dalat Dresser paid two visits to Oya during July and also visited Kampongs for purposes of vaccination, etc. He was away in the Ulu visiting Dayak houses in the Tamin and Lower Oya in the middle of the month. The main purpose of his upriver trip was to inquire into deaths at Rumah Mukan, Batang Oya, which have occurred during the last two months. Five persons were said to have died, and now a sixth has died. The Dresser did what he could for one person who was ill and reported that he considered the deaths due to pneumonia, and not to any type of epidemic. The following arc the figures for the month at Dalat Dispensary 222 persons were vaccinated 26 N.A.B. injections were given 85 out-patients were-treated. Notices were issued informing the public that Government would not make a charge for medicines or the Dresser’s advice to persons who were obviously incapable of paying by reason of extreme poverty This was done as cases have recently come to light in which persons have not approached Government for assistance as they thought nothing would he done for them unless they paid exorbitant sums in medical fees. A little inexpensive medicine for these people has in many cases caused relief. There is a serious shortage of padi in the Baoh and Tamin Districts, Dower Oya. and the Penghulu and local Tuai Rumah asked that a Chinese trader be permitted to establish a godown for the storage and sale of rice and sago only. This godown would be built at Nanga Tamin, and would only be allowed to remain for a period of one year or until such time as these people harvest a good crop. The reason for this request is that hawkers are unable to ship sufficient quantities of rice and sago in their boats at one time to meet with the demand. Permission has been obtained from the Resident to establish this godown. Melanau fishing was in full swing during the month at Oya, and good catches were obtained. The recent rubber tapping holiday would appear to have been a success as far as the Oya district is concerned, no cases of illicit tapping having been brought to light by the police patrols. It has been found possible to start a demonstration vegetable garden at Oya and the ground selected for it is now being cleared. The Senior Agricultural Officer has been requested to forward a selection of seeds. This garden has not been started before as the station has been handicapped by lack of prison labour. It was reported from various localities in the Dalat district that large numbers of bears were swimming the Igan from the Matu direction, and were attacking the sago palms with disastrous re¬ sults. Two gardens in the Ulu Medong have been completely finished. This matter is being investi¬ gated further, and if found to be a fact it is suggested that certain trustworthy persons be permitted to buy buckshot as it appears (hat No. 4 shot will not kill a bear unless hit in some vital spot. The price of raw sago increased again on the figures for last month by 4 cents per passu the figures being 67 cents per passu at Kut and 60 cents per passu at Dalat. The amount of raw sago exported from the Oya and Dalat districts decreased during the month, the figures being :— This shows a total decrease of 95 1/2 koyans on the figures for last month. The total amount of para rubber exported was 289.68 piculs, and of jelutong 58.13 piculs. Twelve motor schooners, one motor launch, six schooners and thirty bandongs cleared Oya during the month, the total tonnage being 792 tons, an increase over the figures for last month of 48 tons. Funeral of the Rev. Father Vincent Halder. The human remains of the Rev. Father V. Halder reached Sibu in s.s. Katong on Tuesday, August 25th. Immediately on arrival the coffin was disembarked and a short service took place which was conducted by the Right Rev. Monseigneur A. Hopfgartner, who had arrived the same morning from Kuching. The coffin was then conveyed in procession through the bazaar to the Roman Catholic church, where it remained until the funeral the following morning. This proces¬ sion was witnessed by large crowds of people, many of whom had come from long distances and who had been waiting several days, and a special guard of police had to be provided to keep wharves and roads from congestion. The funeral took place in the Mission church at 7.45 a.m. on the following morning. The church was crowded to capacity, and many of those who wished to attend the service were forced to remain outside. A Requiem Mass was sung by Father Quadekker, assisted by Father Delaney and Father Chin. Towards the end of the service Mgr. Hopfgartner gave a short address; taking for his text the words “Beloved of God and man," he said that he had known Father Halder for many years; he remembered him when he was still a student in England, where he was known for his bright and happy nature, and for his love of singing. This happy disposition he had carried through life to the very end, since his heart refused to grow old and retained always the freshness and enthusiasm of youth. Mgr. Hopfgartner went on to say that he bad heard frequent remarks about the universal confidence and respect that had been commanded by this little priest,—in his opinion this was due to the sympathy and love which Father Halder radiated wherever he went. In his daily life he set us an example which we, who remain, should try and copy; we should remember that we were fellow-passengers on a journey which brought us eventually to life everlasting. We should try and remember not to dwell on the sorrows and trials of life, but to love God and man and always to be optimistic and cheerful, because our journey-led us always onwards; we should not dwell on the past, but should look forward happily to the future. Father Halder had maintained this cheerfulness and love throughout life's journey. He (Mgr. Hopfgartner) had been told by the Fathers in Singapore that up to the end Father Halder had always been the first to give a cheery welcome to a visitor, and he had even written from hospital to say that there was no need at all to bother about him, it would be all the same whether he died in Sibu or Singapore. During the whole of his last illness he had never complained, and his conduct in what he knew to be the last few weeks of his life was characteristic of the unselfishness which was so noble a part of his nature. In the grave of Father Halder would be buried a piece of old Sibu. At the close of Mgr. Hopfgartner’s address the coffin was carried to a vault of reinforced concrete set at the side of the church almost opposite the junction of the bridge from the bazaar and the Mission road. Among those present at the funeral were Mr. C. D. Adams, Resident, Third Division, and Mrs. Adams, Mr. R. E. Le Sueur, Mr. and Mrs. B. J. C. Spurway, Messrs. S. G. Hansom, A. L. McLaine, G. A. C. Field. W. L. P. Sochon, B. Summers, G. A. Farrelly, G. H. Daly. P. C. V. Cobbold, R. W. Bormond, F. H. Pollard and R. Gotte. A number of wreaths were received from members of all communities, and flags were half- masted as a mark of respect. There could be no doubt about the spontaneity of the tributes to Father Halder from the many mourners who attended the funeral, and all the arrangements were earned out with a simplicity and lack of fr.ss that Father Halder himself won d have been the first to appreciate The whole ceremony was an eloquent gesture of the love and respect that he earned from his host of friends and acquaintances.—(Contributed.) Fourth Division News. JULY. The Ranee’s Theatre, Miri (late Capitol), was re-opened on July 31st after having undergone structural alterations. It proposes to compete with the new theatre (The Grand) which is being built by Messrs. Shaw Brothers, Singapore, and which will be ready in a week or two. This com¬ petition is regrettable but apparently unavoidable. The District Officer, Miri, reports that a contract was made during the month for the dis¬ mantling-of the Long Bridge at Riam Road and the replacement thereof with an embankment. The work was successfully accomplished and it is hoped that no further trouble with this portion of the road will arise. The road, which is important for pepper planters in the district, has been repaired for its whole length and is now open to motor traffic again. News was received on July 9th of the death of Mr. F. A. W. Page-Turner, late Resident, Second Division, and flags were half-masted as a sign of respect. Sir Andrew McFadyean, a Director of the British North Borneo Co., came ashore at Miri on the 21st and proceeded to Jesselton the same day. On the night of July 13th-14th the Limbang Post Office was broken into and the padlock of the safe forced. It is fortunate that the following night was not chosen, as that would have been the night before the mail closed, and a considerable haul might have resulted. Stamps were un¬ touched, and there was little of value in the Post Office at the time with the result that the total loss was only $1.92, being the price of stamps sold after daily cash receipts had been paid into the Treasury. The same night the lock-up fruit stall was broken open, and a small sum of petty cash was taken. It was also reported that the Borneo Evangeli¬ cal Mission at Limpasong was broken into at night, during the absence of the Priest-in-Charge, and the sum of $270 stolen. Investigations are proceeding. There has been a considerable amount of un¬ specified fever and influenza about the kampongs recently, but the health of the Limbang District as a whole has been satisfactory. The whole Limbang District and the Govern¬ ment servants in particular sympathise with Joseph Thane Kang and his wife in the loss of their ten-year old son, John Thane, who died of appendicitis in Brunei hospital on July 23rd. The District Officer, Limbang and Lawas, re¬ ports that Dayaks and other upriver natives are all busy clearing their farms for the next harvest, and practically none visited Limbang during the month. Popper from the subsidised gardens at Limbang started to come in and some was shipped to Kuching, but most of the crop is still being collected and dried. On the 1st Mr. W. Lowry, Superintendent of Trade and Customs, Miri, arrived on a visit to the Limbang District. On July 6th the District Officer accompanied Mr. Lowry to Trusan, Sundar. Awat-Awat, Kuala Lawas and Lawas, which was reached on the evening of the 7th. Mr. Lowry remained there to get a direct connection to Labuan, while the District Officer left at day¬ light the following morning to meet the Resident in Brunei, continuing to Limbang the same evening. The Resident left on the 13th for Trusan, Sundar and Lawas. On July 25th Mr. R. E. Turnbull, British Resident, Brunei, accompanied by Mr. Johnson of the P.W.D. and Mrs. Johnson, visited Limbang. travelling overland. A discussion was held into the advisability of maintaining the Limbang/Brunei road in its present condition. A considerable amount is expended by Brunei on the maintenance of their portion of the road which, the British Resident maintains, the utility of the road does not warrant. It is proposed to maintain it as a bridle-path only. The District Officer, Bintulu, reports that on July 31st the bull from the Government herd was killed and the meat sold. This animal had become vicious and had chased a number of people, including two women prisoners; it also killed a bull calf, so it was decided to get rid of it. The Agricultural Department supplied a new Seindhi bull, which arrived safely by s.s. Auby the day that the former bull was destroyed. On July 9th Land Inspector Abit was dis¬ missed from the Government Service and sentenced to six months’ rigorous imprisonment for cheating. He was replaced by Awang Annu, who arrived from Sibu via Kuching on the 31st. The District Officer, Bintulu, visited Sebauh, Pandan. Labang and Tubau during the month and found everything satisfactory. Bad weather and rough seas were encountered along the coast at the beginning of July. Tuanku Taha, Native Officer. Banin, has been granted eighty-four days’ accumulated leave with effect from July 1st. At Lawas a prisoner serving a sentence for theft, and who was working in the grounds of the hospital, was sentenced to a further year's imprisonment for stealing hospital property. Apart from this there was hardly any crime in the district during the month. The Assistant District Officer, Lawas, records with regret the death of Constable Pengiran Lubai, who succumbed in hospital to pneumonia on July 2nd. Constable Lubai entered the Constabulary in 1924 and almost all his service was spent in the Lawas district. The Lawas (Sarawak) Estates, Ltd., exported 31.360 lbs. of dry rubber during the month.  